ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY,
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
June 30, 2025
Combined Financial Statements
And
Supplementary Information
With
Independent Auditor’s Report
Table of Contents
Page
Independent Auditor’s Report ................................................................................................................. 1 – 3
Management’s Discussion and Analysis ................................................................................................. 4 – 8
Combined Financial Statements
Combined Statement of Net Position ............................................................................................... 9 – 10
Combined Statement of Revenues, Expenses, and Changes in Net Position .................................... 11
Combined Statement of Cash Flows (Authority Only) .................................................................. 12 – 13
Notes to Combined Financial Statements ....................................................................................... 14 – 45
Required Supplementary Information
Schedule of the Authority’s Proportionate Share of the Net Pension
Liability – Arkansas Public Employees Retirement System
as of June 30, 2025 – June 30, 2016 ........................................................................................... 46
Schedule of the Authority’s Contributions – Arkansas Public Employees
Retirement System for the Years Ended June 30, 2025 – June 30, 2016 .................................... 47
Schedule of Changes in Total Other Postemployment Benefits Liability
for the Years Ended June 30, 2025 – June 30, 2018 ................................................................... 48
Supplementary Information
Combining Statement of Net Position ............................................................................................ 49 – 50
Combining Statement of Revenues, Expenses, and Changes in Net Position ................................... 51
Table of Contents (cont.)
Page
Compliance and Internal Control Section
Independent Auditor’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
and on Compliance and Other Matters Based on an Audit of Financial
Statements Performed in Accordance With Government Auditing Standards ......................... 52 – 53
Independent Auditor’s Report on Compliance for Each Major Federal
Program and Report on Internal Control Over Compliance in
Accordance With the Uniform Guidance ................................................................................. 54 – 56
Schedule of Findings and Questioned Costs ..................................................................................... 57
Summary Schedule of Prior Audit Findings ...................................................................................... 58
Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards .................................................................................... 59
Notes to Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards................................................................... 60 – 61
1
Independent Auditor’s Report
Board of Directors
Arkansas Development Finance Authority,
A Component Unit of the State of Arkansas
Little Rock, Arkansas
Report on the Audit of the Combined Financial Statements
Opinions
We have audited the combined financial statements of the business-type activities and the aggregate
discretely presented component unit of the Arkansas Development Finance Authority, a component unit of
the State of Arkansas, as of and for the year ended June 30, 2025, and the related notes to the combined
financial statements, which collectively comprise Arkansas Development Finance Authority’s basic
combined financial statements as listed in the table of contents.
In our opinion, the accompanying combined financial statements present fairly, in all material
respects, the respective financial position of the business-type activities and the aggregate discretely
presented component unit of Arkansas Development Finance Authority, a component unit of the State of
Arkansas, as of June 30, 2025, and the respective changes in financial position, and, where applicable, cash
flows thereof for the year then ended in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America (“GAAP”).
Basis for Opinions
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United
States of America (“GAAS”) and the standards applicable to financial audits contained in Government
Auditing Standards (“GAS”), issued by the Comptroller General of the United States. Our responsibilities
under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Combined
Financial Statements section of our report. We are required to be independent of Arkansas Development
Finance Authority, and to meet our other ethical responsibilities, in accordance with the relevant ethical
requirements relating to our audit. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions.
Responsibilities of Management for the Combined Financial Statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the combined financial
statements in accordance with GAAP, and for the design, implementation, and maintenance of internal
control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of combined financial statements that are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Little Rock, Arkansas | Fayetteville, Arkansas | Raleigh, North Carolina
Scottsdale, Arizona | Yuma, Arizona | Naples, Florida | www.frostpllc.com
An Independent Member of the BDO Alliance USA
2
In preparing the combined financial statements, management is required to evaluate whether there
are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate, that raise substantial doubt about the Arkansas
Development Finance Authority’s ability to continue as a going concern for 12 months beyond the
combined financial statement date, including any currently known information that may raise substantial
doubt shortly thereafter.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Combined Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the combined financial statements
as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s
report that includes our opinions. We did not audit the financial statements of the Arkansas Institutional
Fund, LLC, which represents 14%, 6%, and (12%) of the assets, net position, and total changes in net
position, respectively, for the year ended June 30, 2025 of the aggregate financial statements of the
Arkansas Venture Capital Investment Trust, which is an aggregate discretely presented component unit of
the Arkansas Development Finance Authority. Those statements were audited by another auditor whose
report thereon has been furnished to us, and our opinion, insofar as it relates to the amounts included for
such entities, is based solely on the reports of the other auditor. Reasonable assurance is a high level of
assurance but is not absolute assurance and therefore is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with GAAS and GAS will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. The risk of not
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud
may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal
control. Misstatements are considered material if there is a substantial likelihood that, individually or in
the aggregate, they would influence the judgment made by a reasonable user based on the combined
financial statements. The financial statements of Arkansas Institutional Fund, LLC, a blended component
unit included in the financial statements of the aggregate discretely presented component unit, were not
audited in accordance with GAS.
In performing an audit in accordance with GAAS and GAS, we:
• Exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit.
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the combined financial statements,
whether due to fraud or error, and design and perform audit procedures responsive to those
risks. Such procedures include examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and
disclosures in the combined financial statements.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit
procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an
opinion on the effectiveness of the Arkansas Development Finance Authority’s internal control.
Accordingly, no such opinion is expressed.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of significant
accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluate the overall presentation of the
combined financial statements.
• Conclude whether, in our judgment, there are conditions or events, considered in the aggregate,
that raise substantial doubt about the Arkansas Development Finance Authority’s ability to
continue as a going concern for a reasonable period of time.
We are required to communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other
matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit, significant audit findings, and certain internal control-
related matters that we identified during the audit.
3
Required Supplementary Information
GAAP requires that the management’s discussion and analysis on pages 4 through 8, and other
required supplementary information on pages 46 through 48 be presented to supplement the basic combined
financial statements. Such information is the responsibility of management and, although not a part of the
basic combined financial statements, is required by the Governmental Accounting Standards Board who
considers it to be an essential part of financial reporting for placing the basic combined financial statements
in an appropriate operational, economic, or historical context. We have applied certain limited procedures
to the required supplementary information in accordance with GAAS, which consisted of inquiries of
management about the methods of preparing the information and comparing the information for consistency
with management’s responses to our inquiries, the basic combined financial statements, and other
knowledge we obtained during our audit of the basic combined financial statements. We do not express an
opinion or provide any assurance on the information because the limited procedures do not provide us with
sufficient evidence to express an opinion or provide any assurance.
Supplementary Information
Our audit was conducted for the purpose of forming opinions on the combined financial statements
that collectively comprise Arkansas Development Finance Authority’s basic combined financial
statements. The schedule of expenditures of federal awards, as required by Title 2 U.S. Code of Federal
Regulations Part 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for
Federal Awards, is presented for purposes of additional analysis and are not a required part of the basic
combined financial statements. Such information is the responsibility of management and was derived
from and relates directly to the underlying accounting and other records used to prepare the basic combined
financial statements. The information has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of
the basic combined financial statements and certain additional procedures, including comparing and
reconciling such information directly to the underlying accounting and other records used to prepare the
basic combined financial statements or to the basic combined financial statements themselves, and other
additional procedures in accordance with GAAS. In our opinion, the supplementary information and the
schedule of expenditures of federal awards are fairly stated, in all material respects, in relation to the basic
combined financial statements as a whole.
Other Reporting Required by GAS
In accordance with GAS, we have also issued our report dated December 8, 2025, on our
consideration of Arkansas Development Finance Authority’s internal control over financial reporting and
on our tests of its compliance with certain provisions of laws, regulations, contracts, and grant agreements,
and other matters. The purpose of that report is solely to describe the scope of our testing of internal control
over financial reporting and compliance and the results of that testing, and not to provide an opinion on the
effectiveness of Arkansas Development Finance Authority’s internal control over financial reporting or on
compliance. That report is an integral part of an audit performed in accordance with GAS in considering
Arkansas Development Finance Authority’s internal control over financial reporting and compliance.
Certified Public Accountants
Little Rock, Arkansas
December 8, 2025
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 4
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Management’s Discussion and Analysis
For the Year Ended June 30, 2025
This discussion and analysis is designed to assist the reader in focusing on significant issues and
activities and to identify any significant changes in the financial position of the Arkansas Development
Finance Authority (“ADFA” or the “Authority”). Readers are encouraged to consider the information
presented in conjunction with the combined financial statements and notes as a whole.
Understanding the Combined Financial Statements
The June 30, 2025 basic combined financial statements include three required statements: The
combined statement of net position; the combined statement of revenues, expenses, and changes in net
position; and the combined statement of cash flows. The combined statement of net position and the
combined statement of revenues, expenses, and changes in net position are presented for all of ADFA’s
programs in the combining statements of the Authority. ADFA has nine programs presented as
supplementary information following the notes to combined financial statements: Single Family Housing
Programs, Federal Housing Programs, Multi-Family Programs, Economic Development Bond Guaranty
Program, State Facilities and Amendment 82 Programs, Other Economic Development Programs, Tobacco
Settlement Revenue Bonds Program, Student Loan Programs, and General Fund Program.
The Authority includes three other legally separate entities in its reporting entity – the Arkansas
Venture Capital Investment Trust (“AVCIT”) and its blended component units, the Arkansas Institutional
Fund, LLC (“AIF”) and the Arkansas Venture Development Fund, LLC (“AVDF”). Although legally
separate, these component units are included because the Authority is financially and administratively
accountable for them and excluding them would be misleading. Financial information for these component
units is reported separately from the financial information presented for the Authority itself. Additional
information about the relationships between the Authority and these component units can be found in Note
1.a. to the combined financial statements.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 5
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Management’s Discussion and Analysis (cont.)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2025
Condensed Combined Statements of Net Position
Authority
2025 2024
(In thousands)
Assets
Current assets $ 392,644 $ 366,345
Capital assets, net 2,080 2,121
Other noncurrent assets 747,483 639,729
Total assets 1,142,207 1,008,195
Deferred outflow of resources 1,254 1,641
Liabilities
Current liabilities 34,798 34,586
Noncurrent liabilities 576,358 467,586
Total liabilities 611,156 502,172
Deferred inflow of resources 1,483 1,844
Net position
Investment in capital assets 2,080 2,121
Restricted expendable by bond resolution and programs 366,292 344,907
Unrestricted 162,450 158,792
Net position $ 530,822 $ 505,820
Combined Statement of Net Position
During fiscal year 2025, total assets increased approximately $134.0 million to approximately
$1.14 billion primarily due to the increase in cash and cash equivalents and investments as discussed below.
Cash and cash equivalents (“cash”) increased $41.6 million, or 12%, primarily due to receiving
bond proceeds on the two Single Family bond deals that closed during the year net of purchasing mortgage-
backed securities (“MBS”) with the proceeds. Investments increased $85.3 million, or 59%, due to the
MBS purchases with bond proceeds.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 6
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Management’s Discussion and Analysis (cont.)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2025
The Authority’s liabilities increased by approximately $108.9 million, or 22%, due to an increase
in bonds and notes payable, net of $104.6 million. The increase for bonds and notes payable is mainly
attributable to the issuance of Single Family bond deals of $50 million and $75 million closed during the
year net of scheduled redemptions of $23.1 million and optional bond calls of $3.5 million.
Condensed Combined Statements of Revenues, Expenses, and Changes in Net Position
Authority
2025 2024
(In thousands)
Operating revenues
Total investment income $ 45,589 $ 40,210
Other income/gain on sale of loans 82 74
Total operating revenues 45,671 40,284
Operating expenses
Interest and amortization on bonds and notes 18,302 14,638
Total administrative expenses 14,836 17,349
Total operating expenses 33,138 31,987
Operating income 12,533 8,297
Nonoperating revenues
Federal grants 18,420 18,725
Income before transfers out, net 30,953 27,022
Transfers out, net (5,374) (4,292)
Changes in net position 25,579 22,730
Net position - beginning of year, as previously reported 505,820 483,090
Adoption of Governmental Accounting Standards Board
Statement No. 101, "Compensated Absences" 577 -
Net position - beginning of year, as restated 505,243 -
Net position - end of year $ 530,822 $ 505,820
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 7
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Management’s Discussion and Analysis (cont.)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2025
Combined Statement of Revenues, Expenses, and Changes in Net Position
ADFA’s income before transfers out totaled $30.7 million for the year ended June 30, 2025,
compared to $27.0 million for the year ended June 30, 2024.
The increase in the income before transfers out relates primarily to the increase in total investment
income of $5.4 million and decrease in federal financial assistance programs expense (“federal expenses”)
of $3.4 million offset mainly by increases in interest on bonds and notes of $3.8 million and other expenses
of $1.2 million.
The increase in total investment income is due partly to the increase in investment income of $3.8
million, or 25%, due to the increase of originating MBS at rates ranging between 5% - 5.375%, and due to
funds available from the issuance of Single Family bonds in fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2025. The increase is
also due to the increase in net appreciation of investments of $1.1 million, or 58%, which is due to market
conditions improving as market interest rates have remained consistent in fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2025, and
having the market value being closer to cost values of MBS which comprise the majority of the Authority’s
portfolio.
The decrease associated with federal expenses is mainly due to the Homeowner Assistance Fund
Program. The program received the funds in prior years totaling $63.3 million and disbursed $88,000 this
year compared to $6.7 million in the past year. This program is winding down and ends September 2026.
At June 30, 2025, there was approximately $2.6 million remaining to be disbursed from this program. The
increase in other expenses is primarily due to the issuance costs of two Single Family bond deals totaling
$1.2 million that closed during the current fiscal year.
ADFA’s overall financial position has improved. During the current fiscal year, the net position
increased from the prior year by approximately $24.7 million, or 5%; however, this was mainly due to the
timing of federal funds being received versus disbursed and market conditions due to higher interest rates.
Single Family: During the prior fiscal year, the Authority reauthorized the use of the 1995 Single
Family General Resolution to issue primarily tax-exempt bonds to fund first-time and other qualified
homebuyers with below market interest rates. The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) is the governmental
entity that establishes the rules or code for issuing tax-exempt bonds that the Authority must follow
including criteria for participants. For the previous 10 years, the Authority did not issue bonds due to the
market environment and utilized the to-be-announced (TBA) mortgage markets to aid Arkansas citizens to
obtain homeownership. With higher interest rate conditions and an available volume cap, the Authority
decided to issue mortgage revenue bonds. The 2024 Series A and B Bonds were issued for $50 million at
interest rates ranging from 3.40% - 6.10% with a premium of $550,000 and a final maturity date of July 1,
2054. 2024 Series B Bonds are taxable bonds of $10 million. The mortgage interest rate for the homeowner
was 5.875% for all except one borrower at 6.125% due to closing the loan the first week of opening the
mortgage program. IRS code allows up to a 1.125% spread between the bond yield and the mortgage
interest rate to cover ongoing administrative costs. All excess spread above the allowable amount must be
repurposed into the mortgage program in the form of lower interest rates or rebated back to the IRS.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 8
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Management’s Discussion and Analysis (cont.)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2025
During the current fiscal year, the Authority issued 2024 Series C Bonds on September 24, 2024
for $50 million at interest rates ranging from 3.2% - 5.0% with a premium of $919,000 and maturing on
January 1, 2055. The mortgage interest rate offered was 5.875% but on September 16, 2024, the mortgage
interest rate was decreased to 5.50% and a conventional mortgage interest rate was offered with the
mortgage interest rate of 5.875%. 2024 Series C Bonds proceeds funded the mortgage loans with these
terms. On April 16, 2025, the Authority issued 2025 Series A Bonds for $75 million at interest rates ranging
from 2.95% - 5.50% with a premium of $1.5 million and maturing January 1, 2056. On May 27, 2025, the
Authority increased mortgage rates to 5.75% on governmental loans and 6.125% on conventional loans due
to housing market changes. The Authority plans on continuing to issue tax-exempt bonds as long as the
bond market is advantageous to do so.
Credit Ratings
The Issuer Credit Rating of ADFA from Standard & Poor’s (“S&P”) Global Ratings is currently
“AA/Stable”. Changes in state and federal legislation and statutes can play a role in ADFA achieving its
goals and objectives.
The 1995 General Resolution Single Family mortgage revenue bonds are currently rated
“AA+/Stable” from S&P.
The Authority also administers the Bond Guaranty Fund created by Act 505. The fund is currently
rated “A+/Stable” from S&P. The obligations of the Authority as guarantor are limited to available monies
in the ADFA Guaranty Reserve Account, created and maintained pursuant to the authority conferred in the
ADFA Guaranty Act.
Contacting the Authority’s Financial Management
This financial report is designed to provide bondholders, constituents, and business partners with a
general overview of the Authority’s finances and to show the Authority’s accountability for the funds it
administers. Questions about this report and requests for additional financial information should be directed
to the Chief Financial Officer by telephoning 501.682.5900. The Authority’s website is
https://adfa.arkansas.gov.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 9
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Combined Statement of Net Position
June 30, 2025
(In Thousands)
Component
Assets and Deferred Outflow of Resources Authority Unit
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents $ 377,558 $ 1,318
Accrued interest receivable 3,483 -
Accounts receivable 4,109 -
Current portion of
Investments 2,989 -
Loans 2,847 -
Loans to Component Unit 1,658 -
Total current assets 392,644 1,318
Noncurrent assets
Investments
Unrestricted 44,744 -
Restricted 182,560 20,982
Loans, net of allowance for loan losses of $81,976 516,372 4,700
Capital assets, net 2,080 -
Other assets 3,807 -
Total noncurrent assets 749,563 25,682
Total assets 1,142,207 27,000
Deferred outflow of resources
Other postemployment benefits ("OPEB") difference in expected versus actual experience 318 -
Changes in OPEB actuarial assumptions and proportions 49 -
Pension contributions, net differences, and changes in share of contributions 525 -
Pension differences in expected versus actual experience 137 -
Net differences between expected and actual investment earnings 102 -
Changes in pension actuarial assumptions and proportions 123 -
Total deferred outflow of resources 1,254 -
Total assets and deferred outflow of resources $ 1,143,461 $ 27,000
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined financial statements.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 10
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Combined Statement of Net Position (cont.)
June 30, 2025
(In Thousands)
Component
Liabilities, Deferred Inflow of Resources, and Net Position Authority Unit
Current liabilities
Accounts payable $ 2,096 $ 1
Accrued interest payable 4,499 24
Unearned fees 147 -
Contract obligations 3,294 -
Deferred gain on refinancing sale of asset 33 -
Current portion of bonds and notes payable 24,627 2,301
OPEB and pension liabilities 102 -
Total current liabilities 34,798 2,326
Noncurrent liabilities
Unearned fees 373 -
Contract obligations 2,590 -
Bonds and notes payable, net of unamortized premiums and current portion 513,502 -
Deposits against financing arrangements 51,855 -
Deferred gain on refinancing sale of asset 188 -
OPEB and pension liabilities 5,441 -
Other liabilities 2,409 -
Total noncurrent liabilities 576,358 -
Total liabilities 611,156 2,326
Deferred inflow of resources
OPEB difference in expected versus actual experience 71 -
Changes in OPEB actuarial assumptions and proportions 709 -
Pension difference in expected versus actual experience 144 -
Changes in employer pension contribution and share of contributions 64 -
Lease obligations 495 -
Total deferred inflow of resources 1,483 -
Total liabilities and deferred inflow of resources 612,639 2,326
Net position
Investment in capital assets 2,080 -
Restricted expendable by bond resolution and programs 366,292 24,145
Restricted, nonexpendable, and minority interest - 529
Unrestricted 162,450 -
Total net position 530,822 24,674
Total liabilities, deferred inflow of resources, and net position $ 1,143,461 $ 27,000
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined financial statements.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 11
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Combined Statement of Revenues, Expenses, and Changes in Net Position
For the Year Ended June 30, 2025
(In Thousands)
Component
Authority Unit
Operating revenues (losses)
Investment income (loss)
Interest and dividends $ 18,987 $ 211
Impairment loss - (2,370)
Loans and direct financing leases 17,716 11
Amortization of discounts on loans 1 -
Financing fees 6,025 -
Net appreciation of investments 2,860 -
Total investment income (loss) 45,589 (2,148)
Other income 82 -
Total operating revenues (losses) 45,671 (2,148)
Operating expenses
Interest and amortization on bonds and notes 18,302 92
Administrative expenses
Provision for loan losses 2,675 -
Federal financial assistance programs 2,998 -
Loan servicing and other contractual services 184 -
Salaries and benefits 4,335 -
Operations and maintenance 1,003 -
Other 3,641 254
Total administrative expenses 14,836 254
Total operating expenses 33,138 346
Operating income (loss) 12,533 (2,494)
Nonoperating revenues
Federal grants 18,420 -
Income (loss) before transfers in (out), net 30,953 (2,494)
Transfers in (out), net (5,374) 4,360
Changes in net position 25,579 1,866
Net position - beginning of year, as previously reported 505,820 22,808
Adoption of Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 101,
"Compensated Absences" 577 -
Net position - beginning of year, as restated 505,243 22,808
Net position - end of year $ 530,822 $ 24,674
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined financial statements.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 12
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Combined Statement of Cash Flows (Authority Only)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2025
(In Thousands)
Cash flows from operating activities
Financing fee income received $ 5,595
Other received 82
Cash paid to employees (3,336)
Cash paid for program administration (8,471)
Net cash used by operating activities (6,130)
Cash flows from noncapital financing activities
Proceeds from issuance of bonds and notes payable 127,930
Repayments of bonds and notes payable (26,525)
Cash paid for interest (12,479)
Nonoperating revenues received 18,420
Transfers out, net (5,374)
Net cash provided by noncapital financing activities 101,972
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of investments (114,381)
Maturities of investments 31,883
Interest received on investments 18,762
Interest received on loans 14,226
Principal repayments on loans 43,566
Loan disbursements (47,139)
Cash paid for financing arrangements 1,854
Purchase of capital assets (43)
Investment in state facilities (2,986)
Net cash used in investing activities (54,258)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 41,584
Cash and cash equivalents - beginning of year 335,974
Cash and cash equivalents - end of year $ 377,558
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined financial statements.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 13
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Combined Statement of Cash Flows (Authority Only) (cont.)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2025
(In Thousands)
Reconciliation of changes in net position to net cash used by
operating activities
Operating income $ 12,533
Adjustments to reconcile operating income to net cash used by
operating activities
Amortization (84)
Accreted deferred financing fees (173)
Accreted interest on loans (3,294)
Accreted interest on bonds 3,294
Depreciation of capital assets 84
Provision for loan losses 2,675
Net appreciation of investments (2,860)
Interest income (33,401)
Interest paid on bonds and notes 15,093
Changes in operating assets and liabilities
Accounts receivable (29)
Other assets 895
Accounts payable (1,355)
Other liabilities 492
Net cash used by operating activities $ (6,130)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these combined financial statements.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 14
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
1. Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
a. Nature of operations and reporting entity – The Arkansas Development Finance Authority
(“ADFA” or the “Authority”), a component unit of the State of Arkansas, was created on May 1,
1985, by Act 1062 of 1985 (Arkansas Development Finance Authority Act) as a successor to the
former Arkansas Housing Development Agency (created in 1977) whereby all records, funds,
property, obligations, debts, functions, powers, and duties were transferred to the Authority.
Pursuant to Act 1062 of 1985, the Authority is authorized and empowered to issue bonds and
various other debt instruments for the purpose of financing qualified agricultural business
enterprises, capital improvement facilities, educational facilities, health care facilities, housing
developments, and industrial enterprises. In 2019, the General Assembly approved Act 910 of
2019, the Transformation and Efficiencies Act of 2019. Ten former state agencies and several
boards and commissions were made part of the Arkansas Department of Commerce, including the
Authority. Act 944 of 2025 removed the Authority from the Arkansas Department of Commerce
effective July 1, 2025. The Authority now serves as an independent instrumentality of the State of
Arkansas, whereby the Authority is still subject to State oversight but is given independence to
better serve the public needs.
Effective July 1, 2017, Arkansas Student Loan Authority (“ASLA”) merged with the
Authority. ASLA functions as a division of the Authority. ASLA was created to improve access
to higher education funding for Arkansas students. As part of its mission, ASLA administers
federal loans, provides loan servicing on behalf of the U.S. Department of Education, provides fee-
based default management services to Arkansas colleges and universities, and provides free college
planning services to college-bound high school students.
The Authority is governed by a board of directors, including the secretary of the Arkansas
Department of Finance and Administration (“DFA”), the Arkansas Treasurer of State, the secretary
of the Arkansas Department of Commerce, and 11 members of the public who are appointed by the
governor of Arkansas. The Authority is an independent instrumentality of the State of Arkansas
(the “State”) and is created and governed by laws adopted by the State.
Bonds and other debt instruments issued by the Authority and included on the Authority’s
combined financial statements are usually special obligations of the Authority, payable solely from,
and collateralized by, a first lien on the proceeds, monies, revenues, rights, interests, and collections
pledged therefore under the resolutions authorizing the particular issues. The Authority has issued
bonds and other debt instruments, which are general obligations of the Authority, supported by the
Authority’s general fund assets and/or pledge of the Authority’s issuer credit rating. The State is
not obligated to pay the bonds and other debt instruments, and neither the faith and credit nor the
taxing power of the State is pledged to the payment of the principal or redemption price of, or
interest on, the bonds and other debt instruments. The Authority has no taxing power.
Component units are legally separate organizations for which the Authority’s management
is financially accountable or for which the nature and significance of their relationship with the
Authority are such that exclusion would cause the Authority’s combined financial statements to be
misleading.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 15
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
1. Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (cont.)
Three component units meet the criteria to be discretely presented in the combined
financial statements. The financial information of the Arkansas Venture Capital Investment Trust
(“AVCIT” or “Component Unit”), including its blended component units, the Arkansas
Institutional Fund, LLC (“AIF”) and the Arkansas Venture Development Fund, LLC (“AVDF”), is
presented in a separate column in the agency-wide financial statements to emphasize that the
AVCIT (including AIF and AVDF) is legally separate from the Authority.
The Authority is financially accountable for the AVCIT because the Authority’s president
is one of the three trustees, and the Authority is charged with daily operations and management of
the programs within the trust.
The AVCIT, a public trust, was created in 2003 pursuant to the provisions of the laws of
the State, including specifically Title 28, Chapter 72, Subchapter 2 of the Arkansas Code of 1987
Annotated. The General Assembly of the State adopted the Venture Capital Investment Act of
2001 (“VCI Act”), codified as Title 15, Chapter 5, Subchapter 14 of the Arkansas Code of 1987
Annotated, for the purpose of increasing the availability of equity and near-equity capital for
emerging, expanding, relocating, and restructuring enterprises in the State. The trust is governed
by three trustees: the President of the Authority, the Secretary of the DFA, and the Executive
Director of the Arkansas Economic Development Commission (“AEDC”).
The AIF was formed in 2003 by AVCIT, which owns 99.8% of the limited liability
company. The purpose of the AIF is to invest in private equity, seed, and venture funds and to
support the growth and development of the venture capital industry in the State. Although AVCIT
is the fund manager of AIF, it has contracted with the Authority to perform those duties. The AIF’s
audited financial statements are accounted for on a calendar-year basis and reported under Financial
Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) standards. As such, AIF’s financial statement presentation
was recast to be consistent with Governmental Accounting Standards Board (“GASB”)
presentation features. No other modifications have been made to the AIF’s financial information
in the Authority’s financial reporting entity for differences of FASB and GASB standards.
Subsequent to 2016, the purposes of this entity were carried out through the AVDF.
The AVDF was formed in 2016 by AVCIT, which is the sole owner of the limited liability
company. The primary purposes of the AVDF are to assist the Authority and the AVCIT in
advancing the goals and objectives of the Authority by strengthening the economic base and
creating jobs within the State, including carrying out the purposes and goals of the VCI Act.
Separately issued audited financial statements are not available for the AVDF or the
Arkansas Venture Capital Development Fund (“AVC”). Separately issued audited financial
statements for AIF can be obtained by contacting:
Arkansas Development Finance Authority
1 Commerce Way, Suite 602
Post Office Box 8023
Little Rock, Arkansas 72202
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 16
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
1. Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (cont.)
b. Measurement focus and basis of accounting – The Authority is accounted for as an enterprise
fund for financial reporting purposes and utilizes the economic resource measurement focus and
accrual basis of accounting, wherein revenues are recognized when earned and expenses when
incurred.
Operating revenues and expenses are distinguished from nonoperating items in the
Authority’s combined statement of revenues, expenses, and changes in net position. Operating
revenues and expenses generally result from providing services in connection with the principal
ongoing operations. All revenues and expenses not meeting this definition are reported as
nonoperating items.
c. Recently issued accounting pronouncements – GASB Statement No. 101, “Compensated
Absences.” The objective of this statement is to better meet the information needs of financial
statement users by updating the recognition and measurement guidance for compensated absences.
That objective is achieved by aligning the recognition and measurement guidance under a unified
model and by amending certain previously required disclosures. The requirements of this statement
are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023, with earlier adoption encouraged.
During the year ended June 30, 2025, the Authority adopted this statement, the effects of which are
disclosed on the accompanying combined statement of revenues, expenses, and changes in net
position and in Note 6.
GASB Statement No. 102, “Certain Risk Disclosures.” The objective of this statement is
to provide users of government financial statements with essential information about risks related
to a government’s vulnerabilities due to certain concentrations or constraints. The requirements of
this statement will improve financial reporting by providing users of the combined financial
statements with essential information that currently is not often provided. The disclosures will
provide users with timely information regarding certain concentrations or constraints and related
events that have occurred or have begun to occur that make a government vulnerable to a substantial
impact. As a result, users will have better information with which to understand and anticipate
certain risks to a government’s financial condition. The requirements of this statement are effective
for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2024, with earlier adoption encouraged. The Authority
adopted this statement during the year ended June 30, 2025. After assessing its concentrations and
constraints, the Authority determined there were no concentrations or constraints meeting the
disclosure criteria as defined by GASB Statement No. 102. Therefore, no additional disclosures
are required under this statement.
GASB Statement No. 103, “Financial Reporting Model Improvements.” The objective of
this statement is to improve key components of the financial reporting model to enhance its
effectiveness in providing information that is essential for decision-making and assessing a
government’s accountability. For governments engaged in business-type activities, the primary
impact of this statement will be changes to the combined statement of revenues, expenditures, and
changes in net position (“SRECNP”). This statement not only changes the required sections and
subtotals to be included in the SRECNP but creates new definitions for subsidies and operating and
nonoperating revenues and expenses. Upon adoption, the new definitions may cause
reclassifications of revenues and expenses within the SRECNP. This statement also impacts other
financial statement presentation requirements, including major component units, unusual or
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 17
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
1. Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (cont.)
infrequent items, and management’s discussion and analysis. This statement is effective for fiscal
years beginning after June 15, 2025, and all reporting periods thereafter, with earlier adoption
encouraged. The Authority does not expect this statement to have a material impact on its
combined financial statements.
GASB Statement No. 104, “Disclosure of Certain Capital Assets.” The objective of this
statement is to establish requirements for certain types of capital assets to be disclosed separately
in the capital assets footnote disclosure required by GASB Statement No. 34, “Basic Financial
Statements – and Management’s Discussion and Analysis – for State and Local Governments.”
This statement also establishes requirements for capital assets held for sale, including additional
disclosures for those capital assets. The requirements of this statement are effective for fiscal year
beginning after June 15, 2025, and all reporting periods thereafter, with earlier adoption
encouraged. The Authority has not determined the impact, if any, this statement could have on its
combined financial statements.
d. Fund accounting – The Authority utilizes internal funds, each of which accounts for the assets,
liabilities, net position, revenues, and expenses of the Authority’s programs and activities.
The following describes the nature of the operations and significant programs currently
maintained by the Authority:
Single Family Housing Programs
Single Family Mortgage Purchase Program – Accounts for proceeds from single-family
mortgage revenue bonds, the debt service requirements of the bonds, and the related mortgage-
backed securities, or mortgage loans for single-family owner-occupied housing in the State.
Included within this program are the Authority’s Single Family Mortgage Revenue Bond General
Resolution, adopted on July 20, 1995 (1995 General Resolution), and the Authority’s Home
Ownership Revenue Bond General Resolution, adopted on November 19, 2009 (2009 General
Resolution).
Federal Housing Programs
HOME Investment Partnerships Program – Accounts for federal financial assistance
received from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) for the purpose
of developing and supporting affordable housing through tenant based rental assistance, rental
rehabilitation, new construction, or assistance to homebuyers and homeowners.
Tax Credit Assistance Program (“TCAP”) – Accounts for federal financial assistance in
the form of American Reinvestment and Recovery Act funds received from HUD for the purpose
of providing additional financing in the form of loans to developers to ensure that developments
have sufficient financing to provide quality affordable housing. Only developments that were
awarded low-income housing tax credits under Section 42(h) of the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”)
in federal fiscal years 2007, 2008, and 2009 were eligible for the sub-awards granted to the State
from HUD for TCAP funding.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 18
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
1. Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (cont.)
Neighborhood Stabilization Programs (“NSP”) – Accounts for federal financial
assistance received from HUD for the purpose of stabilizing neighborhoods that have suffered the
most from foreclosures and abandonment. The Authority participated in two of the three NSP
offered by HUD. The first NSP was authorized by the Housing and Economic Recovery Act, which
was signed into law on July 30, 2008. The third NSP was authorized by the Dodd-Frank Wall
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. NSP provides loans to purchase and
rehabilitate foreclosed or abandoned homes for sale or rent in order to stabilize neighborhoods and
stem the decline of house values in neighboring homes.
Preservation Revolving Loan Fund Program – Accounts for federal financial assistance
received from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (“USDA”) Rural Housing Service to loan funds
to carry out a demonstration program that provides revolving loans for the preservation and
revitalization of low-income multi-family housing.
National Housing Trust Fund Program – Accounts for federal financial assistance
received from HUD for the purpose of expanding and preserving the supply of affordable housing,
particularly rental housing, for extremely low-income to very low income households.
Homeowner Assistance Fund (“HAF”) Program – Accounts for federal financial
assistance received from the U.S. Department of the Treasury as a grant under the American Rescue
Plan Act of 2021 (“ARPA”) for the purpose of preventing homeowner mortgage delinquencies,
defaults, foreclosures, loss of utilities or home energy services, and displacements of homeowners
experiencing financial hardship after January 21, 2020 through reimbursement of qualified
expenses related to mortgages and housing.
Emergency Solutions Grant Program – Accounts for federal assistance received from
HUD Community Planning and Development to provide funding to engage homeless individuals
and families, improve the number and quality of emergency shelters for homeless individuals and
families, help operate these shelters, provide essential services to shelter residents, rapidly re-house
homeless individuals and families, and prevent families and individuals from being homeless.
Multi-Family Programs
Financing Adjustment Factor (“FAF”)/New BMIR Loan Programs – Accounts for
loans receivable funded by distributions the Authority received from an old multi-family bond
issue, as well as from FAF distributions from the federally funded Section 8 Housing Assistance
Payment Program.
Affordable Housing Assistance Program – Accounts for loans receivable funded for the
use of down payment assistance, rental assistance, low-interest financing, land acquisition, new
construction, rehabilitation constructions, and reconstruction.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 19
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
1. Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (cont.)
Economic Development Bond Guaranty Program
Economic Development Bond Guaranty Program – Accounts for guaranty fees
collected, interest earned on investments, and disbursements made in connection with bond
guaranties provided by the Authority, as well as the proceeds from the sale of development revenue
bonds issued by the Authority and guaranteed by the Bond Guaranty Fund, the debt service
requirements of the bonds, and related loans and leases to private companies. The Bond Guaranty
Fund was created by Act 505 of 1985, which authorized a grant of $6 million from the State
treasurer (which was subsequently repaid by the Authority) for the purpose of enhancing and
supporting the creditworthiness of bonds and other debt instruments guaranteed by the Authority.
At June 30, 2025, the fund had cash and cash equivalents and investments totaling $18.5 million in
the reserve account to collateralize Authority-guaranteed bonds and future issues under the bond
guaranty program.
State Facilities and Amendment 82 Programs
State Facilities Programs – Accounts for the proceeds from the sale of development
revenue bonds; the debt service requirements of the bonds, and related loans and leases to public
and government bodies within the State; and includes certain assets not owned and related
obligations not owed by the Authority.
Amendment 82 Programs – Accounts for the proceeds from the sale of general obligation
bonds of the State as authorized under Amendment 82 of the Arkansas Constitution; related loans
and leases to private institutions and government bodies within the State, and includes certain assets
not owned and related obligations not owed by the Authority.
Other Economic Development Programs
State Small Business Credit Initiative Program – The ARPA reauthorized and amended
the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010, codified at 12 U.S.C. § 5701 et seq., to provide $10 billion
to fund the State Small Business Credit Initiative (“SSBCI”) as a response to the economic effects
of the COVID-19 pandemic. SSBCI is a federal program administered by the U.S. Department of
the Treasury that was created to strengthen capital programs that support private financing to small
businesses, including capital access programs and other credit support programs (loan guarantees,
loan participations, and venture capital investment programs) of eligible jurisdictions (i.e., states,
the District of Columbia, territories, Tribal governments, and eligible municipalities).
Arkansas was awarded a potential allocation of $81.6 million to support seven programs:
Arkansas Capital Access Program, ADFA Bond Guaranty/Loan Participation Program, ADFA
DBE MWOBE - Loan Mobilization Revolving Fund, ADFA Small Business Revolving Loan
Guaranty Program, ADFA Bond Guaranty/CDFI Loan Participation Program, and two programs
to be carried out by the AVCIT: AVDF and AVC. The first tranche in the amount of $24.0 million
was received on December 16, 2022.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 20
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
1. Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (cont.)
Other Economic Development Programs – Accounts for loan reserve programs, such as
Capital Access and Disadvantaged Business Enterprise.
Tobacco Settlement Revenue Bonds Program
Tobacco Settlement Revenue Bonds Program – Accounts for the proceeds from the sale
of tobacco settlement revenue bonds and the debt service requirements of the bonds and related
disbursements of bond proceeds to participating colleges to be used to fund the construction and
equipping of projects outlined by the Arkansas Tobacco Settlement Funds Act of 2000, as
supplemented by Act 9 of the First Extraordinary Session of 2006 of the 85th General Assembly.
Student Loan Programs
Student Loan Programs – To provide private student loans at below-market interest rates
to students and families, provide fee-based default management services to Arkansas colleges and
universities, along with other financial aid office support services, and provide free financial
literacy and college planning services to Arkansas students and families.
General Fund Program
General Fund Program – Accounts for direct obligations of the Authority; revenue
earned by the Authority for issuing and administering various programs; operating expenses of the
Authority; special initiatives of the Authority, such as direct loan programs, funding down payment
assistance, and warehousing mortgage-backed securities created by its Single Family Housing
Programs; and money or residual assets, such as investments and mortgages, transferred from other
funds to the extent such transfers are permitted by the resolutions.
e. Estimates – The preparation of combined financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities and deferred inflow
and outflow of resources and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
combined financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
f. Cash and cash equivalents – The Authority considers all liquid investments with original
maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. At June 30, 2025, cash equivalents of
$377.6 million consisted primarily of money market mutual funds with variable interest rates.
g. Investments and investment income – Investments are carried at fair value with the exception of
equity investments held by AVCIT.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 21
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
1. Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (cont.)
Equity investments held by the AVCIT are carried at cost. The net accumulated earnings
of individual investments subsequent to the date of acquisition are recognized by AVCIT only to
the extent distributed as dividends. A decrease in the carrying value of an investment is recognized
when a series of operating losses of an individual investment or other factors indicate that an other
than temporary decline in value below cost has occurred.
Investment income includes dividend and interest income, realized gains and losses on
investments, if any, and the net change for the year in the fair value of investments carried at fair
value.
The fair value of the Authority’s investments at June 30, 2025 was less than the cost basis
by $5.7 million.
h. Loans – Loans that management has the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future or until
maturity or payoff are reported at their outstanding principal balances adjusted for unearned
income, charge-offs, and the allowance for loan losses. For loans amortized at cost, interest income
is accrued based on the unpaid principal balance.
Generally, loans are placed on nonaccrual status at 180 days past due. Past due status is
based on the contractual terms of the loan. All interest accrued but not collected for loans that are
placed on nonaccrual or charged off are reversed against interest income unless the loan is well
secured and in the process of collection. The interest on these loans is accounted for on the cash-
basis or cost recovery method until qualifying for return to accrual. Loans are returned to accrual
status when all the principal and interest amounts contractually due are brought current, and future
payments are reasonably assured.
i. Allowance for loan losses – The allowance for loan losses is established as losses are estimated to
have occurred through a provision for loan losses charged to expense. Actual loan losses are
charged against the allowance when management believes the uncollectibility of a loan balance is
confirmed. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance.
The allowance for loan losses is evaluated on a regular basis by management and is based
upon management’s periodic review of the collectibility of the loans in light of historical
experience, the nature and volume of the loan portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the
borrower’s ability to repay, estimated value of any underlying collateral, and prevailing economic
conditions. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires estimates that are susceptible to
significant revision as more information becomes available.
The allowance consists of allocated and general components. The allocated component
relates to loans that are classified as impaired and additional loans specifically reviewed by
management. The general component covers non-classified loans and is based on historical charge-
off experience and expected loss given default derived from the Authority’s internal risk rating
process. Other adjustments may be made to the allowance for pools of loans after an assessment
of internal or external influences on credit quality that are not fully reflected in the historical loss
or risk rating data.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 22
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
1. Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (cont.)
Impaired loans are evaluated as part of the review of the allowance for loan losses. A loan
is considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that the
Authority will be unable to collect the scheduled payments of principal or interest when due
according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Factors considered by management in
determining impairment include payment status, collateral value, and the probability of collecting
scheduled principal and interest payments when due. Loans that experience insignificant payment
delays and payment shortfalls generally are not classified as impaired. Management determines
the significance of payment delays and payment shortfalls on a case-by-case basis, taking into
consideration all of the circumstances surrounding the loan and the borrower, including the length
of the delay, the reasons for the delay, the borrower’s prior payment record, and the amount of the
shortfall in relation to the principal and interest owed. Impairment is measured on a loan-by-loan
basis for commercial and construction loans by either the present value of expected future cash
flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate, the loan’s obtainable market price, or the fair
value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent.
Groups of loans with similar risk characteristics are collectively evaluated for impairment
based on the group’s historical loss experience adjusted for changes in trends, conditions, and other
relevant factors that affect repayment of the loans.
j. Income taxes – As an essential government function of the State, the Authority is exempt from
income taxes under Section 115 of the IRC and a similar provision of state law.
k. Capital assets – Premises and equipment are carried at cost, less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation for financial statement purposes is computed using the straight-line method over the
estimated useful lives of the assets, ranging from 3 to 10 years. The Authority defines capital assets
as assets with an initial, individual cost of more than $5 thousand and a life greater than one year.
l. Pensions – For purposes of measuring the net pension liability, deferred outflow of resources, and
deferred inflow of resources related to pensions and pension expense, information about the
fiduciary net position of the Arkansas Public Employees Retirement System (“APERS”), and
additions to/deductions from APERS fiduciary net position have been determined on the same basis
as they are reported by APERS. For this purpose, benefit payments (including refunds of employee
contributions) are recognized when due and payable in accordance with the benefit terms.
Investments are reported at fair value.
m. Postemployment benefits other than pensions – For purposes of measuring the net other
postemployment benefits (“OPEB”) liability, deferred inflows of resources, and deferred outflows
of resources related to OPEB and OPEB expense, information about the fiduciary net position of
the benefit plan and additions to/deductions from the plan’s fiduciary net position have been
determined on the same basis as they were determined by a third-party actuarial report on the plan.
For this purpose, benefit payments are recognized when due and payable in accordance with the
benefit terms. Investments are reported at fair value.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 23
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
1. Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (cont.)
n. Deferred outflow/inflow of resources – The Authority reports increases in net position that relate
to future periods as deferred outflow of resources in a separate section of its combined statement
of net position. The Authority reports decreases in net position that relate to future periods as
deferred inflow of resources in a separate section of its combined statement of net position. These
amounts will be amortized as pension and OPEB expense over future periods as shown in Notes 9
and 10.
o. Deposits against financing arrangements – Deposits against financing arrangements represent
debt service funds and interest earned on funds created by trust indentures associated with bond
issuances that are held by the Authority to be used by the borrower to pay debt service to the
Authority. If not used to pay debt service, these funds are returned to the borrower at the end of the
financing arrangement.
p. Contract obligations – Contract obligations consist of payables on contracts the Authority entered
into with the Arkansas Department of Corrections (“ADC”), a software subscription service
agreement to administer the HAF program, and the remaining balance of the consulting service
agreement for the HAF program.
q. Unearned guaranty fee – The Authority receives guaranty fees from borrowers who participate in
the Bond Guaranty Fund Programs. Nonrefundable fees are amortized into income ratably over
the term of the respective programs.
r. Conduit debt obligations – Conduit debt issued by the Authority is recorded on the Authority’s
combined statement of net position if either (a) the Authority has a vested interest in the residual
value of the bond issue after its retirement or (b) the Authority guarantees the debt through the
Bond Guaranty Fund.
Additionally, the Authority reports conduit debt obligations of entities included in the State
of Arkansas reporting entity on its combined statement of net position. At June 30, 2025, the
principal balance of these bonds included on the Authority’s combined statement of net position
totaled $252.5 million.
s. Net position – Net position represents the difference between assets and deferred outflow of
resources, and liabilities and deferred inflow of resources on the accompanying combined statement
of net position. Net position is classified in four components:
Restricted expendable by bond resolution and programs – Represents those funds restricted within
the respective bond resolution or by specific provisions of the programs.
Restricted, nonexpendable, and minority interest – Represents the equity interest of the Component
Unit held by a minority participant.
Investment in capital assets – Represents the balance of capital assets, net of depreciation. No
related debt exists.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 24
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
1. Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (cont.)
Unrestricted – Represents those funds used at the discretion of the Authority’s Board of Directors
to complement bond and loan programs and to provide for the Authority’s operations.
The Authority first applies restricted net position when an expense or outlay is incurred for
purposes for which both restricted and unrestricted net positions are available.
2. Deposits and Investments
Deposits
The Authority – Custodial credit risk is the risk that, in the event of a bank failure, the
Authority’s deposits may not be returned to it. The Authority’s deposit policy for custodial credit risk
requires compliance with the provisions of state law, including the State Board of Finance’s
Management of Cash Funds Rule 2012-A, the Authority’s various bond indentures, and the Authority’s
general fund investment policy. Deposits are collateralized for those amounts exceeding federal
depository insurance, typically with obligations of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, U.S. agencies
or instrumentalities, municipal bonds, or bank purchase agreements having an aggregate value at least
105% of the amount of the deposits.
At June 30, 2025, the carrying value of the Authority’s deposits was $13.4 million. The
balances, per the bank statements, totaled $13.5 million. Of those deposits, $92 thousand were exposed
to custodial credit risk.
(In thousands)
Uninsured and uncollateralized $ 92
The uninsured and uncollateralized balance represents deposits with the Federal Home Loan
Bank (“FHLB”) of Dallas.
Investments
The Authority – The Authority may legally invest in direct obligations of, and other
obligations guaranteed as to principal by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and U.S. agencies and
instrumentalities, mortgage-backed securities, guaranteed investment contracts, municipal bonds, and
bank repurchase agreements.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 25
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
2. Deposits and Investments (cont.)
At June 30, 2025, the Authority had the following investments and maturities:
Maturities in Years
Less than 1 1 - 5 6 - 10 More than 10 Total
(In thousands)
U.S. agencies obligations $ 4,951 $ 42,677 $ 915 $ - $ 48,543
Mortgage-backed securities 20 3,630 13,549 161,370 178,569
Mutual bond funds 1,149 565 266 1,201 3,181
$ 6,120 $ 46,872 $ 14,730 $ 162,571 $ 230,293
Component Unit – The mission of ACVIT is to increase the availability of equity and near-
equity capital for emerging, expanding, relocation, and restructuring enterprises in the State, with the
ultimate goal of strengthening the State’s economic base and creating jobs. ACVIT can legally invest
in equity capital and near equity capital and was created to invest in such. There are no scheduled
maturities for these investments, nor are they rated investments. There is no limit on the amount that
may be invested in any one company. There is only one investment that represented 5% or more of the
total equity investments. This company focuses on diagnostic health testing, which is 6.67% of the
total investments balance as of June 30, 2025. Total equity investments for ACVIT at June 30, 2025
were $21.0 million.
a. Interest rate risk – As a means of limiting its exposure to fair value losses due to rising interest
rates, the Authority’s investments typically match the term of the corresponding bonds or, in the
case of general funds, limit the maturity to no greater than 15 years for municipal bonds and seven
years for treasuries, agencies, and mortgage-backed securities.
The Authority invests in various asset and mortgage-backed securities. These securities
are reported at fair value in the combined statement of net position. The Authority invests in these
securities to enhance yields on investments. Changes in market interest rates could affect the cash
flows of these securities and may result in changes in fair value. The overall return or yield on
these securities depends on the changes in the interest and principal payment pattern and the market
value of the underlying assets.
b. Credit risk – Credit risk is the risk that the issuer or other counterparty to an investment will not
fulfill its obligations. The Authority complies with various trust indentures or internal investment
policy whereby investments and debt securities are typically rated “A” or higher. The Authority’s
investments in U.S. agencies obligations and mortgage-backed securities not directly guaranteed
by the U.S. government were primarily rated “AA+” by Standard & Poor’s (“S&P’s”) and “Aaa”
by Moody’s Investors Service at June 30, 2025. The Authority’s amounts in money market mutual
funds, or investments of those funds, were primarily rated “AAAm” by S&P’s and “Aaa” by
Moody’s Investors Service.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 26
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
2. Deposits and Investments (cont.)
c. Custodial credit risk – For an investment, custodial credit risk is the risk that, in the event of the
failure of the counterparty, the Authority will not be able to recover the value of its investment or
collateral securities that are in the possession of an outside party. The Authority’s investments in
mutual funds and guaranteed investment contracts are not classified by custodial risk category as
they are not supported by securities in physical or book entry form.
d. Concentration of credit – The Authority places no limit on the amount that may be invested in
any one issuer. Investments of the Authority (not guaranteed by the U.S. government or considered
a mutual fund) representing 5% or more of total investments at June 30, 2025 are as follows:
Issuer Fair Value Percentage
(In thousands)
Federal Farm Credit Bank $ 20,992 9.15%
FHLB 25,657 11.18%
Summary of Carrying Values
The carrying values of deposits, money market mutual funds, the State Treasurer Money
Management Trust Fund (“MMTF”), and investments are included on the accompanying combined
statement of net position as follows:
Component
Authority Unit
(In thousands)
Carrying values
Deposits $ 13,415 $ 1,318
Money market mutual funds 269,741 -
State Treasurer MMTF 94,402 -
Investments 230,293 20,982
$ 607,851 $ 22,300
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 27
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
2. Deposits and Investments (cont.)
Included in the following combined statement of net position captions:
Component
Authority Unit
(In thousands)
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents $ 377,558 $ 1,318
Current portion of investments 2,989 -
Noncurrent assets
Investments
Unrestricted 44,744 -
Restricted 182,560 20,982
$ 607,851 $ 22,300
The Authority’s investments above are carried at their estimated fair market value. Unrealized
gains and losses are included in investment income on the accompanying combined statement of
revenues, expenses, and changes in net position and combined statement of cash flows. The Authority
recorded unrealized gains of $2.86 million for fiscal year 2025. As discussed in Note 11 for federated
treasury obligations, money market obligations, and cash management fund, the carrying value
approximates fair value. The Component Unit investments are carried at historical cost less any
impairments. During the year ended June 30, 2025, the Component Unit recorded impairments of
approximately $2.37 million.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 28
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
3. Loans and Direct Financed Leases
The following presents the breakdown of the Authority’s portfolio of loans receivable:
The Authority
Loans
Net of Stated
Type of Loan Balance Allowance Allowance Interest Rate Impairments
Federal Housing Programs $ 182,811 $ 72,098 $ 110,713 0.00% to 6.25% $ 82,692
Multi-Family Programs 6,012 2,853 3,159 0.00% to 4.00% 2,502
Economic Development Bond
Guaranty Program 20,409 1,982 18,427 0.00% to 6.00% 3,080
State Facilities and Amendment
82 Programs 248,060 - 248,060 1.60% to 5.00% -
Other Economic Development
Programs 2,290 604 1,686 1.00% to 3.00% 758
Tobacco Settlement Revenue
Bonds Program 68,110 - 68,110 4.89% to 5.10% -
General Fund Program 55,984 3,124 52,860 0.00% to 7.875% 359
Student Loan Programs 19,177 1,315 17,862 2.95% to 7.50% -
Totals $ 602,853 $ 81,976 $ 520,877 $ 89,391
a. Federal Housing Programs – Includes loans funded by federal agencies, mainly HUD, and are
either for multi-family housing or single-family housing loan assistance. The programs offer
different types of loan structures, such as deferred loans and surplus cash loans, as well as loans
with below market interest rates and standard amortization.
b. Economic Development Bond Guaranty Program – Loans and leases to private companies for
financing the acquisition or expansion of facilities are collateralized by liens on and security
interests in collateral granted by the companies and by guaranty agreements between the Authority
and one or more guarantors. To a limited extent, and only when specified by a specific trust
indenture, the payment of principal and interest on the bonds is guaranteed by the Authority under
the ADFA Bond Guaranty Act (Act 505 of 1985).
Additionally, the Bond Guaranty Fund guarantees principal and interest on revenue bonds
issued by municipalities within the State for economic development purposes. At June 30, 2025,
revenue bonds outstanding of $10.74 million were guaranteed by the Bond Guaranty Fund.
Furthermore, the Bond Guaranty Fund guarantees bond anticipation notes. At June 30, 2025, the
principal amount on these notes totaled $1.3 million outstanding, with $1.1 million guaranteed.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 29
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
3. Loans and Direct Financed Leases (cont.)
c. State Facilities Programs – Includes financing activities with various state agencies.
d. Tobacco Settlement Revenue Bonds Program – Includes a loan agreement between the Authority
and the University of Arkansas’s Board of Trustees (the “University”), whereby the University
agrees to provide for repayment in the event tobacco settlement revenues are not available.
e. General Fund Program – Includes loans that are residual assets of the Single Family Mortgage
Purchase Program, Multi-Family Mortgage Purchase Program, or funded by the general fund as
special initiatives of the Authority. Mortgage loans purchased by the Authority under the Single
Family Mortgage Purchase Program are typically Federal Housing Administration insured,
guaranteed by USDA Rural Development, or U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs guaranteed.
Included in the general fund program is a $1.7 million loan to the component unit.
f. Student Loan Programs – Includes private student loans with below-market interest rates for
Arkansas residents attending higher education institutions either in Arkansas or out-of-state. Non-
Arkansas residents are eligible to receive private student loans from the Authority when attending
an eligible Arkansas higher education institution.
g. Delinquent loans – At June 30, 2025, accruing loans delinquent 180 days or more, where payment
is anticipated due to current payment activity, totaled approximately $218 thousand. At June 30,
2025, nonaccruing loans were $11.9 million.
Component Unit – AVCIT
At June 30, 2025, the Component Unit had no nonaccruing loans.
h. Direct financing leases – The Authority is the lessor under various leases whereby the Authority
issued bonds for the acquisition or construction of certain facilities and then leased the facilities to
other state agencies or private companies. At the end of the lease terms, these leases either transfer
ownership to the other agencies or contain bargain purchase options.
4. Loan to Component Unit
AVCIT
The Authority finances a line of credit to the AIF, a blended component unit of the AVCIT,
and the total is not to exceed $24 million. The balance was $1.7 million for the year ended June 30,
2025 (see Note 7).
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 30
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
5. Capital Assets
Premises and equipment activity consists of the following:
Transfers and
June 30, 2024 Additions Disposals June 30, 2025
(In thousands)
Premises and equipment $ 4,047 $ - $ 72 $ 4,119
Less accumulated depreciation 1,926 84 29 2,039
Capital assets, net $ 2,121 $ 84 $ 43 $ 2,080
Depreciation expense was approximately $84 thousand for the year ended June 30, 2025.
6. Noncurrent Liabilities
Changes in noncurrent liabilities, other than bonds and notes payable discussed in Note 7,
consist of the following:
The Authority
Adoption Amount
of GASB June 30, Due
June 30, Statement 2024, June 30, Within
2024 No. 101 As Restated Increases Decreases 2025 One Year
(In thousands)
Unearned fees $ 727 $ - $ 727 $ - $ 207 $ 520 $ 147
Contract obligations 6,758 - 6,758 2,000 2,874 5,884 3,294
Deposits against
financing
arrangements 49,127 - 49,127 27,845 25,117 51,855 -
Deferred gain on
refinancing sale of
asset 243 - 243 - 22 221 33
OPEB liability 1,915 - 1,915 109 - 2,024 102
Pension liability 4,138 - 4,138 - 619 3,519 -
Compensated absences 412 577 989 219 - 1,208 1,140
Other liabilities 1 - 1 2,342 2 2,341 -
$ 63,321 $ 577 $ 63,898 $ 32,515 $ 28,841 $ 67,572 $ 4,716
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 31
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
7. Bonds and Notes Payable
Bonds and notes payable consist of the following:
The Authority
(In thousands)
Total Single Family bonds payable, with interest
rates ranging from 2.49% - 6.1% and final
maturity at varying dates through January 1, 2056. $ 187,825
Plus unamortized premiums 3,391
Total Single Family bonds payable, net 191,216
Total Federal Housing notes payable, with interest
rates of 1.00% and final maturity at varying
dates through July 29, 2045. 2,960
Total Economic Development bonds payable,
guaranteed by the Bond Guaranty Fund, with
interest rates ranging from 2.25% - 6.00%
and final maturity at varying dates through
January 1, 2040. 23,327
Total State Facilities bonds payable, with interest
rates ranging from 1.6% - 5.00% and final
maturity at varying dates through December 1,
2050. 252,516
Tobacco bonds payable, with interest rates
ranging from 4.89% - 5.10% and final maturity
at varying dates through July 1, 2046. 68,110
Total all bonds and notes payable, net $ 538,129
Component Unit
(In thousands)
Note payable to the Authority, with an interest
rate of 3.50% and maturing in March 2027. $ 2,301
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 32
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
7. Bonds and Notes Payable (cont.)
Activity in bonds and notes payable consists of the following:
The Authority
Additions Amount Due
Beginning Including Ending Within
Balance Accretion Reductions Balance One Year
(In thousands)
Bonds payable $ 429,867 $ 128,294 $ (26,383) $ 531,778 $ 24,484
Notes payable 3,102 - (142) 2,960 143
432,969 128,294 (26,525) 534,738 24,627
Unamortized premiums 546 2,930 (85) 3,391 -
Total $ 433,515 $ 131,224 $ (26,610) $ 538,129 $ 24,627
Component Unit
Amount Due
Beginning Ending Within
Balance Additions Reductions Balance One Year
(In thousands)
Note payable $ 2,772 $ 126 $ (597) $ 2,301 $ 2,301
The future amount of principal and interest due is undeterminable at this time because the
balances will fluctuate with draws needed for capital calls and reductions for distributions by investee
companies.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 33
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
7. Bonds and Notes Payable (cont.)
The Authority
Future amounts required for principal and interest on all bonds and notes payable at June 30,
2025 were as follows:
(In thousands) Principal Interest
Fiscal Year Ending
2026 $ 24,627 $ 16,850
2027 25,780 17,216
2028 30,503 16,351
2029 23,597 15,516
2030 23,703 14,877
2031 - 2035 133,105 63,924
2036 - 2040 112,442 46,401
2041 - 2045 91,846 31,924
2046 - 2050 58,858 19,087
2051 - 2055 48,710 7,174
2056 - 2059 3,075 93
Unamortized premiums 3,391 -
Accreted interest (41,508) 41,508
Total $ 538,129 $ 290,921
Under certain bond resolutions, the Authority has the option to redeem bonds early at various
premium rates. Generally, the redemption option cannot be exercised prior to the time the bonds have
been outstanding for 6 to 10 years. Certain special redemptions, as governed by the bond resolutions,
are permitted or required prior to such time. During fiscal 2025, $3.5 million of bonds were redeemed
at par early.
The bonds and notes are collateralized, as described in the applicable bond and note resolutions,
by the revenues, monies, investments, mortgage loans, and other assets in the funds and accounts
established by the respective bond and note resolutions.
During the normal course of business, the Authority issues Economic Development Revenue
Bonds and Multi-Family Housing Revenue Bonds on behalf of private companies within the State. The
bonds are payable solely from, and secured by, a pledge of revenues from the private companies to
which the bond proceeds were remitted and, accordingly, have been excluded from the Authority’s
combined financial statements. At June 30, 2025, the bonds outstanding issued under these programs
aggregated $2.8 billion.
On August 7, 2025, the Authority issued 2025 Series B Single Family Bonds for $65 million,
at rates ranging between 2.95% - 5.50%, with a premium of $1.5 million, and maturing on January 1,
2056. The proceeds from these bonds will be used to fund loans with a weighted-average mortgage
interest rate of 5.788% per annum.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 34
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
8. Concentration of Risk in Lending and Loan Receivable
The Authority, through its normal lending activity, originates and maintains loans receivable
that are concentrated primarily in Arkansas. The Authority’s policy calls for collateral or other forms
of repayment assurance to be received from the borrower at the time of loan origination. Such collateral
or other forms of repayment assurance are subject to changes in economic value due to various factors
beyond the control of the Authority, and such changes could be significant.
The Authority’s private student loans are not collateralized; therefore, uncollectible student
loans are expected to be covered with loan loss reserves.
Additionally, the Authority is dependent on private insurers for recovery of loan principal
should a borrower or borrowers not pay the principal and should any collateral prove to be insufficient
in value to provide for full recovery of principal and accrued interest. This dependency is concentrated
in a limited number of insurers, and the Authority’s ability to monitor closely the insurers’ financial
condition is limited.
9. Retirement Plan
Plan Descriptions
The officials and employees of the Authority participate in a statewide, cost sharing, multiple
employer, defined benefit pension plan administered by APERS. There is no legal obligation imposed
upon the member agencies relative to the operation of APERS other than the payment of a percentage
of the gross salaries of eligible employees participating in the Plan as an employer contribution. APERS
consists of both a contributory plan and a noncontributory plan. The noncontributory plan was created
by Act 793 of 1977 and was effective January 1, 1978. It automatically applied to all members hired
from January 1, 1978 to June 30, 2005. Act 2084 of 2005 requires that, beginning July 1, 2005, all new
hires become contributory members and are required to contribute 5% of their earnings to APERS.
Beginning on July 1, 2022, the contribution rate was increased by .25% and will increase each July 1st
until a max of 7% is reached. All other noncontributory members were given the opportunity to become
contributory if they so elected by December 31, 2005. Employees joining APERS prior to July 1, 1997
are vested after 10 years of employment. Beginning July 1, 1997, the vesting period for new members
was reduced to five years; however, this act was not retroactive. APERS is audited separately, and
included therein is financial data and trend information, which gives an indication of the extent to which
APERS is accumulating sufficient assets to pay benefits when due.
Eligible employees of the Authority are provided with pensions through APERS, administered
by APERS’s Board of Trustees. APERS is a cost sharing multiple employer defined benefit plan.
Benefit provisions are established and amended by Arkansas Code Title 24.
The plan issues a publicly available financial report, which may be obtained by contacting:
Arkansas Public Employees Retirement System
124 W. Capitol Avenue, Suite 400
Little Rock, Arkansas 72201-3704
(501) 682-7800
http://www.apers.org/publications
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 35
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
9. Retirement Plan (cont.)
Benefits Provided
APERS provides retirement, disability, and death benefits and annual adjustments to plan
members and beneficiaries, as follows:
The normal retirement benefit, paid on a monthly basis, is determined based on (1) the
member’s final average compensation (an average of the highest 36 months’ earnings) and (2) the
number of years of credited service. Retiree benefit increases are calculated each year on July 1 for the
following 12 months. The re-determined amount is the amount of the benefit payable as of the
immediately preceding July 1, increased by 3%. Members are eligible for full retirement benefits (1)
at any age with 28 years of credited service; (2) at age 65 with five years of actual service, except for
members of the General Assembly who must have 10 years of actual service if the member only has
service as a member of the General Assembly; or (3) at age 55 with 35 years of credited service as an
elected official or public safety member. Members are eligible for reduced benefits (1) at any age with
at least 25 years but less than 28 years of actual service; or (2) at age 55 with five years of actual service.
Members who are defined as a public safety member are eligible for a reduced benefit with five years
of actual service if the member is within 10 years of normal retirement age.
Contributions
Arkansas Code Title 24 establishes the contribution requirements of active members and
participating employers. Contribution rates are as follows:
Contribution provisions applicable to the participating employers are established by APERS’s
Board of Trustees and should be based on an independent actuary’s determination of the rate required
to fund APERS. The General Assembly and certain agencies employing individuals in public safety
positions must also remit additional amounts. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2024, the employer
contribution rates, as a percentage of active member payrolls, ranged from 4.00% to 67.13%.
Contributions to APERS from the Authority were approximately $509 thousand for the year ended June
30, 2025.
During a member’s participation in APERS deferred retirement option plan, the employer
continues to contribute and the employee ceases to contribute.
Net Pension Liability
The collective net pension liability of $2.5 billion was measured as of June 30, 2024, and the
total pension liability used to calculate the net pension liability was determined by an actuarial valuation
as of that date. Each employer’s proportion of the net pension liability was based on the employers’
share of contributions to the pension plan relative to the total contributions of all participating
employees. At June 30, 2024, the Authority’s proportion was 0.1414% for APERS. At June 30, 2025,
the Authority reported liabilities of $3.5 million for its proportionate share of the net pension liability
and has been recognized in the Authority’s accompanying combined statement of net position.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 36
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
9. Retirement Plan (cont.)
The net pension liability in the cost-sharing pension plan at June 30, 2025, using the 2024
measurement date, is as follows:
Total
APERS ADFA's
Pension Liability
Liability Portion
(In thousands)
Total pension liability $ 13,533,079 $ 19,140
Plan net position 11,044,957 15,621
Net pension liability $ 2,488,122 $ 3,519
Plan net position as a % of total pension liability 81.61% 81.61%
Pension Liabilities, Pension Expense, Deferred Outflow of Resources, and Deferred Inflow of
Resources to Pensions
For the year ended June 30, 2025, the Authority recognized pension expense of approximately
$415 thousand. For the year ended June 30, 2025, the Authority reported deferred outflow of resources
and deferred inflow of resources related to pensions as follows:
Deferred Deferred
Outflow of Inflow of
Resources Resources
(In thousands)
Differences between expected and actual experience $ 137 $ 144
Changes of assumptions 123 -
Net differences between projected and actual earnings on
pension plan investments 102 -
Changes in proportion and differences between the Authority's
contributions and proportionate share of contributions 16 64
The Authority's contributions subsequent to the measurement
date 509 -
Total $ 887 $ 208
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 37
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
9. Retirement Plan (cont.)
At June 30, 2025, the Authority reported approximately $509 thousand as deferred outflow of
resources related to pensions resulting from the Authority’s contributions subsequent to the
measurement date that will be recognized as a reduction of the net pension liability in the fiscal year
ended June 30, 2025. Other amounts reported as deferred outflow of resources and deferred inflow of
resources related to pensions will be recognized in pension expense as follows:
(In thousands)
Fiscal Year Ending
2026 $ (80)
2027 489
2028 (155)
2029 (84)
$ 170
Actuarial Assumptions
For fiscal 2025, the total pension liability in the actuarial valuation was determined using the
following actuarial assumptions, applied to all periods included in the measurement, (a) an inflation
rate of 3.25%, (b) salary increases in the range of 3.25% to 11.00%, including inflation, (c) an
investment rate of return of 7.00%, and (d) the PubG-2010 Amount-Weighted Below-Median Income
General Retiree Mortality tables, were used. The healthy retiree mortality tables, for postretirement
mortality, used in evaluating allowances to be paid were 114% for males and 132% for females. The
disabled retiree mortality tables, for postretirement disabled mortality, used in evaluating allowances
to be paid were 114% and 132% of the PubNS-2010 Amount-Weighted Disabled Retiree Mortality
tables for males and females, respectively. The preretirement mortality tables used were 75% of the
PubG-2010 Amount-Weighted Below-Median General Employee Mortality tables for active mortality
experience. Mortality rates for a particular calendar year are determined by applying the MP-2021
mortality improvement scale to the tables described above.
The actuarial assumptions used in the June 30, 2024 valuation were based on the period July
1, 2017 through June 30, 2022.
Long-Term Expected Return on Plan Assets
The long-term expected rate of return on pension plan investments was determined using a
building-block method in which best-estimate ranges of expected future real rates of return (expected
returns, net of pension plan investment expense, and inflation) are developed for each major asset class.
These ranges are combined to produce the long-term expected rate of return by weighing the expected
future real rates of return by the target asset allocation percentage and by adding expected inflation.
The best estimates of arithmetic real rates of return for the 10-year period from 2024 - 2033 were
provided by the plan investment consultant.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 38
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
9. Retirement Plan (cont.)
For each major asset class that is included in the pension plans’ target asset allocation, these
best estimates are summarized in the following table:
Long-Term
Target Expected
Asset Class Allocation Rate of Return
Broad domestic equity 39% 5.03%
International equity 17% 6.34%
Real assets 16% 4.51%
Private equity 5% 9.00%
Hedge funds 2% 3.63%
Domestic fixed 21% 3.38%
Total 100%
Discount Rate
The discount rate for the plan was determined as follows:
The discount rate used to measure the total pension liability was 7.00% for the year ended June
30, 2025. The projection of cash flows used to determine the discount rate assumed that plan member
contributions will be made at the current contribution rate and that employer contributions will be made
at rates equal to the difference between actuarially determined contribution rates and the member rate.
Based on these assumptions, the pension plan’s fiduciary net position was projected to be available to
make all projected future benefit payments of current plan members. Therefore, the long-term expected
rate of return on pension plan investments was applied to all periods of projected benefit payments to
determine the total pension liability.
Sensitivity of the Authority’s Proportionate Share of the Net Pension Liability to Changes in the
Discount Rate
The following presents the Authority’s proportionate share of the net pension liability for the
plan calculated using the discount rate stated above, as well as what the Authority’s proportionate share
of net pension liability would be if it were calculated using a single discount rate that is 1% lower or
1% higher than the current rate:
Current
1% Decrease Discount Rate 1% Increase
APERS - current discount rate 7.00% $ 6,005 $ 3,519 $ 1,470
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 39
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
9. Retirement Plan (cont.)
Pension Plan Fiduciary Net Position
Detailed information about the pension plan’s fiduciary net position is available in the
separately issued financial report of the plan.
10. Postemployment Benefits Other Than Pensions
Plan Description
The Authority contributes to the single-employer defined benefit healthcare plan for eligible
state employees, Arkansas State Employee Health Plan (“ASE”) (administered by the Department of
Finance and Administration – Employee Benefits Division).
Benefits Provided
The plan provides medical and prescription drug benefits to plan members and beneficiaries as
established by state law Arkansas Code § 21-5-401 to § 21-5-414.
ASE covers state employees who are members of APERS and are eligible to be in ASE on their
last day of employment and their dependents. Retirees and their spouses are eligible to continue
participation in ASE until the death of each covered individual. Retirees who are Medicare eligible
will have their benefits coordinated with Medicare Part A and B, with ASE being the secondary payer.
Employees Covered by Benefit Terms
The Authority had 43 active employees as of June 30, 2025. Inactive employees still receiving
benefits are not maintained at each agency’s level.
Annual OPEB Cost and Net OPEB Obligation
At June 30, 2025, the Authority reported the following liability as determined as of the date
listed:
Measurement Total OPEB
Date Liability
(In thousands)
Authority June 30, 2025 $ 2,024
Actuarial Assumptions and Other Inputs
The total OPEB liability was determined by an actuarial valuation as of the valuation date of
June 30, 2025, calculated based on the discount rate and actuarial assumptions below. Any significant
changes during the period have been reflected as prescribed by GASB Statement No. 75, “Accounting
and Financial Reporting for Postemployment Benefits Other Than Pensions.” The actuarial valuations
used are included in the State’s report.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 40
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
10. Postemployment Benefits Other Than Pensions (cont.)
The discount rate was 5.20% and was based on the Bond Buyer 20-Bond GO Index. The
inflation rate was 2.30% and salary increases, including both wage growth in addition to promotion and
longevity, ranged from 11.00% to 3.45% for ages ranging from 20 years to 65 years.
Mortality rates were based on the PUBG-2010 amount-weighted below-median income
general, retiree, and disabled retiree mortality tables for males and females. Mortality rates are
multiplied by 114% for males and 132% for females. The healthy annuitant tables are adjusted for
fully generational mortality improvements using Scale MP-2021.
Long-Term Expected Rate of Return
Since there are no plan assets held in trust, the expected long-term rate of return is zero.
Therefore, the required supplementary information associated with the schedule of contributions of
investment returns is not included.
Changes in the Total OPEB Liability
The following table provides the changes in the total OPEB liability for the Authority:
Total OPEB
Liability
(In thousands)
Balance - June 30, 2024 $ 1,915
Changes for the current fiscal year
Service cost 69
Interest 77
Effect of economic/demographic gains or losses 291
Changes in assumptions or other inputs (256)
Changes in proportion 13
Benefit payments (85)
Net changes 109
Balance - June 30, 2025 $ 2,024
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 41
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
10. Postemployment Benefits Other Than Pensions (cont.)
Sensitivity of the Total OPEB Liability to Changes in the Discount Rate
The following table presents the total OPEB liability of the Authority, as well as what the
Authority’s total OPEB liability would be if it were calculated using a discount rate that is one
percentage-point lower or one percentage-point higher than the current discount rate for the plan:
1% Decrease Current Discount Rate 1% Increase
Total OPEB Total OPEB Total OPEB
Rate Liability Rate Liability Rate Liability
(In thousands)
Authority 4.20% $ 2,279 5.20% $ 2,024 6.20% $ 1,810
Sensitivity of the Total OPEB Liability to Changes in the Healthcare Cost Trend Rates
The following table presents the total OPEB liability of the Authority, as well as what the
Authority’s total OPEB liability would be if it were calculated using healthcare costs trend rates that
are one percentage-point lower or one percentage-point higher than the current healthcare cost trend
rates for the plan:
Current Health
1% Decrease Care Cost Trend Rate 1% Increase
Total OPEB Liability Total OPEB Liability Total OPEB Liability
(In thousands)
Authority 4.20% $ 1,777 5.20% $ 2,024 6.20% $ 2,327
OPEB Expense and Deferred Outflow of Resources and Deferred Inflow of Resources Related to OPEB
For the year ended June 30, 2025, the Authority recognized OPEB expense for the plan as
follows:
Total OPEB
Expense
(In thousands)
Authority $ (272)
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 42
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
10. Postemployment Benefits Other Than Pensions (cont.)
At June 30, 2025, the Authority reported deferred outflow of resources and deferred inflow of
resources related to OPEB for the plan:
Authority
Deferred Deferred
Outflow of Inflow of
Resources Resources
(In thousands)
Difference between expected and actual experience $ 318 $ 71
Changes of assumptions and other inputs 49 709
Total $ 367 $ 780
Amounts reported as deferred outflow of resources and deferred inflow of resources related to
OPEB will be recognized in OPEB expense as follows:
(In thousands)
Fiscal Year Ending
2026 $ (300)
2027 (95)
2028 (18)
Total $ (413)
11. Fair Value of Financial Instruments
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an
orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Fair value measurements
must maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. There is a
hierarchy of three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value:
• Level I – Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that are accessible at the measurement
date for identical, unrestricted assets or liabilities.
• Level II – Quoted prices in markets that are not active or inputs, which are observable,
either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability.
• Level III – Prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both significant to
the fair value measurement and unobservable (i.e., supported by little or no market
activity).
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 43
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
11. Fair Value of Financial Instruments (cont.)
Recurring Measurements
The following table presents the fair value measurements of assets recognized on the
accompanying combined financial statements measured at fair value on a recurring basis and the level
within the fair value hierarchy in which the fair value measurements fall:
Quoted Prices
in Active Significant
Markets for Other Significant
Identical Observable Unobservable
Assets Inputs Inputs
Fair Value (Level I) (Level II) (Level III)
(In thousands)
U.S. agencies obligations $ 48,543 $ - $ 48,543 $ -
Mortgage-backed securities 178,569 - 178,569 -
Mutual bond funds 3,181 - 3,181 -
$ 230,293 $ - $ 230,293 $ -
The following is a description of the valuation methodologies and inputs used for assets
measured at fair value on a recurring basis and recognized on the accompanying combined financial
statements, as well as the general classification of such assets pursuant to the valuation hierarchy. There
have been no significant changes in the valuation techniques during the year ended June 30, 2025.
Investments
Where quoted market prices are available in an active market, securities are classified within
Level I of the valuation hierarchy. The Authority did not have any Level I securities at June 30, 2025.
Level II securities include U.S. Government and federal agencies, mortgage-backed securities,
negotiable certificates of deposit, and mutual bond fund. If quoted market prices are not available, then
fair values are estimated by an independent third-party pricing service using pricing models, quoted
prices of securities with similar characteristics, or discounted cash flows. For these investments, the
inputs used by the pricing service to determine fair value may include one or a combination of
observable inputs such as benchmark yields, reported trades, broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two-
sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers, and reference data market research publications and
are classified within Level II of the valuation hierarchy. In certain cases where Level I or Level II
inputs are not available, securities are classified within Level III of the hierarchy. The Authority did
not have any Level III securities at June 30, 2025.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 44
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
12. Commitments and Contingencies
The Authority
The Authority participates in numerous state and federal grant programs, which are governed
by various rules and regulations of the grantor agencies. Costs charged to the respective grant programs
are subject to audit and adjustment by the grantor agencies; therefore, to the extent the Authority has
not complied with the rules and regulations governing the grants, refunds of any money received may
be required, and the collectibility of any related receivable at June 30, 2025 may be impaired. In the
opinion of the Authority, there are no significant contingent liabilities relating to compliance with the
rules and regulations governing the respective grants; therefore, no provision has been recorded on the
accompanying combined financial statements for such contingencies.
The Authority has $16.7 million of amounts recorded as cash and investments on the
accompanying combined statement of net position that may be disbursed to borrowers under loan and
lease agreements closed prior to June 30, 2025.
Component Unit
Outstanding commitments to various funds/companies by the AVCIT were $7.7 million for the
year ended June 30, 2025.
From time to time, the Authority may be a defendant in legal actions related to its business
operations and mission. While the final outcome of these legal actions may vary, management is of the
opinion that the ultimate liability, if any, will not have a material effect on the Authority’s financial
position.
The Authority is exposed to various risks of loss related to torts; theft of, damage to, and
destruction of assets; workers’ compensation claims; fiduciary liability; and fidelity for which the
Authority either carries commercial insurance or participates in insurance through the State. There
have been no settlements exceeding insurance coverage in the past three years.
The IRC of 1986 establishes rules and regulations for arbitrage rebates. The Authority has
made provisions for revenues above the rebate limit, which must be remitted to the federal government.
In 2003, the Authority initiated funding for the AIF, an institutional fund of funds venture
capital program created by the Arkansas General Assembly in 2001. The VCI Act authorizes the
Authority to assist in increasing the availability of equity and near-equity capital for emerging,
expanding, relocating, and restructuring enterprises in the state through the creation of an institutional
partnership fund. The Bond Guaranty Fund is subject to the first $10 million of losses incurred by the
AIF. The funding is structured as a guaranteed line of credit with the Authority, and draws occur on
an as-needed basis. The outstanding balance on the guaranteed line of credit was $1.7 million as of
June 30, 2025.
The Bond Guaranty Fund guarantees a letter of credit with a financial institution for up to $3.75
million in the event of non-performance by the borrower. This guaranty is renewed annually.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 45
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Combined Financial Statements
June 30, 2025
12. Commitments and Contingencies (cont.)
Third-Party Servicers
The Authority has contracted with and utilizes the services of Aspire Resources Inc. (“Aspire”)
to originate and service private student loans. The third party, Aspire, performs virtually all student
loan servicing activities on behalf of the Authority, including maintenance of borrower files, payment
processing, and processing loan applications. The Authority has contracted with EdFinancial Services,
Inc. to perform a variety of administrative activities related to marketing the Authority’s private student
loan programs, providing fee-based support services to Arkansas financial aid offices, and certain other
administrative functions on behalf of the Authority’s Student Loan Programs.
13. Subsequent Events
The Authority evaluated the events and transactions subsequent to its June 30, 2025 combined
statement of net position date and determined there were no additional significant events, other than
disclosed in Notes 1.a. and 7, to report through December 8, 2025, which is the date the Authority
issued its combined financial statements.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Schedule of the Authority’s Proportionate Share of the Net Pension Liability – Arkansas Public Employees Retirement System
June 30, 2025 – June 30, 2016
2025 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Authority's proportion of net pension liability 0.1414% 0.1420% 0.1403% 0.1525% 0.1700% 0.1785% 0.1790% 0.1996% 0.1880% 0.1941%
Authority's proportionate share of the net
pension liability $ 3,519,034 $ 4,137,828 $ 3,783,369 $ 1,172,128 $ 4,868,576 $ 4,306,471 $ 3,947,934 $ 5,156,742 $ 4,496,128 $ 3,575,061
Authority's covered payroll, cash basis 3 ,335,804 3 ,318,249 2 ,944,747 2 ,948,277 3 ,366,431 3 ,418,710 3 ,394,031 3 ,250,192 3 ,408,161 3 ,444,062
Authority's proportionate share of the net
pension liability as a percentage of its
covered-employee payroll 105.49% 124.70% 128.48% 39.76% 144.62% 125.97% 116.32% 158.66% 131.92% 103.80%
Plan fiduciary net position as a percentage
of total pension liability 81.61% 77.94% 78.31% 93.57% 75.38% 78.55% 79.59% 75.65% 75.50% 80.39%
Information in this schedule has been determined as of the measurement date (June 30 of the year prior to the most recent fiscal year-end) of the
Authority’s net pension liability.
For 2025 through 2018, information for ASLA is included.
See independent auditor’s report.
46
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Schedule of the Authority’s Contributions – Arkansas Public Employees Retirement System
For the Years Ended June 30, 2025 – June 30, 2016
2025 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Contractually required contribution $ 509,354 $ 492,223 $ 482,131 $ 449,326 $ 466,396 $ 508,214 $ 523,322 $ 494,459 $ 471,153 $ 493,947
Contributions in relation to the contractually
required contribution 5 09,354 4 92,223 4 82,131 4 49,326 4 66,396 5 08,214 5 23,322 4 94,459 4 71,153 4 93,947
Contribution deficiency $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ -
Authority's covered employee payroll $ 3,335,804 $ 3,187,155 $ 3,318,249 $ 2,944,747 $ 2,948,277 $ 3,366,431 $ 3,418,710 $ 3,394,031 $ 3,250,192 $ 3,408,161
Contributions as a percentage of covered
employee payroll 15.27% 15.44% 14.53% 15.26% 15.82% 15.32% 15.31% 14.57% 14.50% 14.49%
Information in this schedule has been determined as of the Authority’s most recent fiscal year-end.
For 2025 through 2018, information for ASLA is included.
See independent auditor’s report.
47
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Schedule of Changes in Total Other Postemployment Benefits Liability
For the Years Ended June 30, 2025 – June 30, 2018
(In Thousands)
Plan
Measurement date 2025 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018
Service cost $ 69 $ 82 $ 90 $ 214 $ 206 $ 114 $ 104 $ 132
Interest 77 76 77 95 93 112 122 137
Effect of plan changes - - - (1,089) - - - -
Effect of economic/demographic gains or losses 291 110 39 (354) 12 (108) 20 (55)
Changes in assumptions or other inputs (256) (310) (158) (946) (177) 1,020 (305) (144)
Changes in proportion 13 (52) 49 (33) 104 120 (661) -
Benefit payments (85) (82) (93) (109) (92) (87) (94) (109)
Net changes 109 (176) 4 (2,222) 146 1,171 (814) (39)
Total OPEB liability - beginning 1,915 2,091 2,087 4,309 4,163 2,992 3,806 3,845
Total OPEB liability - ending $ 2,024 $ 1,915 $ 2,091 $ 2,087 $ 4,309 $ 4,163 $ 2,992 $ 3,806
Covered employee payroll $ 3,336 $ 3,187 $ 3,318 $ 2,945 $ 2,948 $ 3,366 $ 3,419 $ 3,394
Total as a percentage of covered employee payroll 60.70% 60.09% 63.02% 70.87% 146.17% 123.68% 87.51% 112.14%
The State implemented GASB Statement No. 75, “Accounting and Financial Reporting for Postemployment Benefits Other Than Pensions,” in
fiscal year 2018. Information for the schedule was not available prior to fiscal year 2018.
See independent auditor’s report.
48
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Combining Statement of Net Position
June 30, 2025
(In Thousands)
Economic State Tobacco
Single Development Facilities Other Settlement
Family Federal Bond and Economic Revenue General Student
Housing Housing Multi-Family Guaranty Amendment Development Bonds Fund Loan
Assets and Deferred Outflow of Resources Programs Programs Programs Program 82 Programs Programs Program Program Programs Eliminations Total
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents $ 1 30,515 $ 3 4,696 $ 7 ,042 $ 1 6,880 $ 5 5,617 $ 1 8,409 $ 5 ,408 $ 6 7,408 $ 4 1,583 $ - $ 377,558
Accrued interest receivable 1,112 156 26 111 833 65 18 639 523 - 3,483
Accounts receivable - 3,733 - 40 3 - - 1,090 26 (783) 4,109
Current portion of
Investments - - - - - - - 2,989 - - 2,989
Loans - - - - - - - 2,847 - - 2,847
Loans to Component Unit - - - - - - - 1,658 - - 1,658
Total current assets 1 31,627 3 8,585 7,068 1 7,031 5 6,453 1 8,474 5,426 7 6,631 4 2,132 (783) 3 92,644
Noncurrent assets
Investments
Unrestricted - - - - - - - 4 4,744 - - 4 4,744
Restricted 1 70,721 - - 8,658 - - - - 3,181 - 1 82,560
Loans, net of allowance for loan losses of $81,976 - 1 10,713 3,159 1 8,427 2 48,060 1,686 6 8,110 4 8,355 1 7,862 - 5 16,372
Capital assets, net - - - - - - - 83 1,997 - 2,080
Other assets - 287 - - - - - 2,986 534 - 3,807
Total noncurrent assets 1 70,721 1 11,000 3,159 2 7,085 2 48,060 1,686 6 8,110 9 6,168 2 3,574 - 7 49,563
Total assets 3 02,348 1 49,585 1 0,227 4 4,116 3 04,513 2 0,160 7 3,536 1 72,799 6 5,706 (783) 1,142,207
Deferred outflow of resources
OPEB difference in expected versus actual experience - - - - - - - 318 - - 318
Changes in OPEB actuarial assumptions and proportions - - - - - - - 49 - - 49
Pension contributions, net differences, and changes in share of contributions - - - - - - - 525 - - 525
Pension differences in expected versus actual experience - - - - - - - 137 - - 137
Net differences between expected and actual investment earnings - - - - - - - 102 - - 102
Changes in pension actuarial assumptions and proportions - - - - - - - 123 - - 123
Total deferred outflow of resources - - - - - - - 1,254 - - 1,254
Total assets and deferred outflow of resources $ 3 02,348 $ 149,585 $ 1 0,227 $ 4 4,116 $ 304,513 $ 2 0,160 $ 7 3,536 $ 174,053 $ 6 5,706 $ (783) $ 1,143,461
See independent auditor’s report.
49
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Combining Statement of Net Position (cont.)
June 30, 2025
(In Thousands)
Economic State Tobacco
Single Development Facilities Other Settlement
Family Federal Bond and Economic Revenue General Student
Housing Housing Multi-Family Guaranty Amendment Development Bonds Fund Loan
Liabilities, Deferred Inflow of Resources, and Net Position Programs Programs Programs Program 82 Programs Programs Program Program Programs Eliminations Total
Current liabilities
Accounts payable $ - $ 402 $ - $ - $ - $ 25 $ - $ 2 ,363 $ 89 $ (783) $ 2 ,096
Accrued interest payable 3,252 18 - 257 972 - - - - - 4,499
Unearned fees - - - 113 - - - 34 - - 147
Contract obligations - - - - 3,294 - - - - - 3,294
Deferred gain on refinancing sale of asset - - - - - 15 - 18 - - 33
Current portion of bonds and notes payable 1,800 143 - 2,277 1 5,442 - 4,965 - - - 2 4,627
OPEB and pension liabilities - - - - - - - 102 - - 102
Total current liabilities 5,052 563 - 2,647 1 9,708 40 4,965 2,517 89 (783) 3 4,798
Noncurrent liabilities
Unearned fees - - - 373 - - - - - - 373
Contract obligations - - - - 2,590 - - - - - 2,590
Bonds and notes payable, net of unamortized premiums and current portion 1 89,416 2,817 - 2 1,050 2 37,074 - 6 3,145 - - - 5 13,502
Deposits against financing arrangements - - - 1,288 4 5,141 - 5,426 - - - 5 1,855
Deferred gain on refinancing sale of asset - - - - - 23 - 165 - - 188
OPEB and pension liabilities - - - - - - - 5,441 - - 5,441
Other liabilities - - - - - - - 2,409 - - 2,409
Total noncurrent liabilities 1 89,416 2,817 - 2 2,711 2 84,805 23 6 8,571 8,015 - - 5 76,358
Total liabilities 1 94,468 3,380 - 2 5,358 3 04,513 63 7 3,536 1 0,532 89 (783) 6 11,156
Deferred inflow of resources
OPEB difference in expected versus actual experience - - - - - - - 71 - - 71
Changes in OPEB actuarial assumptions and proportions - - - - - - - 709 - - 709
Pension difference in expected versus actual experience - - - - - - - 144 - - 144
Changes in employer pension contribution and share of contributions - - - - - - - 64 - - 64
Lease obligations - - - - - - - - 495 - 495
Total deferred inflow of resources - - - - - - - 988 495 - 1,483
Total liabilities and deferred inflow of resources 1 94,468 3,380 - 2 5,358 3 04,513 63 7 3,536 1 1,520 584 (783) 6 12,639
Net position
Investment in capital assets - - - - - - - 83 1,997 - 2,080
Restricted expendable by bond resolution and programs 1 07,880 1 46,205 1 0,227 1 8,758 - 2 0,097 - 6 3,125 - 3 66,292
Unrestricted - - - - - - - 1 62,450 - - 1 62,450
Total net position 1 07,880 1 46,205 1 0,227 1 8,758 - 2 0,097 - 1 62,533 6 5,122 - 5 30,822
Total liabilities, deferred inflow of resources, and net position $ 3 02,348 $ 1 49,585 $ 1 0,227 $ 4 4,116 $ 3 04,513 $ 2 0,160 $ 7 3,536 $ 1 74,053 $ 6 5,706 $ (783) $ 1,143,461
See independent auditor’s report.
50
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Combining Statement of Revenues, Expenses, and Changes in Net Position
For the Year Ended June 30, 2025
(In Thousands)
Economic State Tobacco
Single Development Facilities Other Settlement
Family Federal Bond and Economic Revenue General Student
Housing Housing Multi-Family Guaranty Amendment Development Bonds Fund Loan
Programs Programs Programs Program 82 Programs Programs Program Program Programs Eliminations Total
Operating revenues
Investment income
Interest and dividends $ 10,127 $ 1 ,107 $ 2 93 $ 5 11 $ - $ 9 18 $ - $ 3 ,731 $ 2 ,300 $ - $ 18,987
Loans and direct financing leases - 1 ,016 53 1 ,102 8 ,696 28 3 ,294 2 ,688 8 39 - 1 7,716
Amortization of discounts on loans - - - - - - - 1 - - 1
Financing fees - - - 2 63 - 79 - 7 ,151 - (1,468) 6 ,025
Net appreciation (depreciation) of investments 1 81 - - 4 10 - - - 2 ,309 (40) - 2 ,860
Total investment income 1 0,308 2 ,123 3 46 2 ,286 8 ,696 1 ,025 3 ,294 1 5,880 3 ,099 (1,468) 4 5,589
Other income - - - - - - - 56 26 - 82
Total operating revenues 10,308 2 ,123 3 46 2 ,286 8 ,696 1 ,025 3 ,294 1 5,936 3 ,125 (1,468) 45,671
Operating expenses
Interest and amortization on bonds and notes 5 ,183 33 - 1 ,050 8 ,739 - 3 ,294 3 - - 1 8,302
Administrative expenses
Provision for (recovery of) loan losses - 1 ,839 (64) (272) - 44 - 4 76 6 52 - 2 ,675
Federal financial assistance programs - 2 ,998 - - - - - - - - 2 ,998
Loan servicing and other contractual services - - - - - - - - 1 84 - 1 84
Salaries and benefits - - - - - - - 3 ,864 4 71 - 4 ,335
Operations and maintenance - 1 ,477 2 - - 93 - 6 11 1 72 (1,352) 1 ,003
Other 1 ,687 2 77 58 37 - 1 62 - 9 17 6 19 (116) 3 ,641
Total administrative expenses 1 ,687 6 ,591 (4) (235) - 2 99 - 5 ,868 2 ,098 (1,468) 14,836
Total operating expenses 6 ,870 6 ,624 (4) 8 15 8 ,739 2 99 3 ,294 5 ,871 2 ,098 (1,468) 33,138
Operating income (loss) 3 ,438 (4,501) 3 50 1 ,471 (43) 7 26 - 1 0,065 1 ,027 - 1 2,533
Nonoperating revenues
Federal grants - 1 8,377 - - 43 - - - - - 1 8,420
Income before transfers in (out), net 3 ,438 1 3,876 3 50 1 ,471 - 7 26 - 1 0,065 1 ,027 - 3 0,953
Transfers in (out), net 5 ,657 (73) - - - (5,157) - (5,801) - - (5,374)
Changes in net position 9 ,095 1 3,803 3 50 1 ,471 - (4,431) - 4 ,264 1 ,027 - 2 5,579
Net position - beginning of year, as previously reported 9 8,785 132,402 9 ,877 1 7,287 - 2 4,528 - 158,846 6 4,095 - 505,820
Adoption of Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 101, "Compensated Absences" - - - - - - - 5 77 - - 5 77
Net position - beginning of year, as restated 98,785 132,402 9 ,877 1 7,287 - 2 4,528 - 158,269 64,095 - 505,243
Net position - end of year $ 107,880 $ 146,205 $ 10,227 $ 18,758 $ - $ 20,097 $ - $ 162,533 $ 65,122 $ - $ 530,822
See independent auditor’s report.
51
52
Independent Auditor’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
and on Compliance and Other Matters Based on an Audit of Financial
Statements Performed in Accordance With Government Auditing Standards
Board of Directors
Arkansas Development Finance Authority
A Component Unit of the State of Arkansas
Little Rock, Arkansas
We have audited, in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of
America and the standards applicable to financial audits contained in Government Auditing Standards
(“GAS”) issued by the Comptroller General of the United States, the combined financial statements of the
business-type activities and the aggregate discretely presented component unit of Arkansas Development
Finance Authority as of and for the year ended June 30, 2025, and the related notes to the combined financial
statements, which collectively comprise Arkansas Development Finance Authority’s basic combined
financial statements, and have issued our report thereon dated December 8, 2025.
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
In planning and performing our audit of the combined financial statements, we considered Arkansas
Development Finance Authority’s internal control over financial reporting (“internal control”) as a basis
for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances for the purpose of expressing our
opinions on the combined financial statements, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of Arkansas Development Finance Authority’s internal control. Accordingly, we do not
express an opinion on the effectiveness of Arkansas Development Finance Authority’s internal control.
A deficiency in internal control exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow
management or employees in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent, or detect
and correct misstatements on a timely basis. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of
deficiencies, in internal control, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of
the entity’s combined financial statements will not be prevented or detected and corrected on a timely basis.
A significant deficiency is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control that is less
severe than a material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those charged with governance.
Our consideration of internal control was for the limited purpose described in the first paragraph of
this section and was not designed to identify all deficiencies in internal control that might be material
weaknesses or significant deficiencies. Given these limitations, during our audit we did not identify any
deficiencies in internal control that we consider to be material weaknesses. However, material weaknesses
or significant deficiencies may exist that were not identified.
Little Rock, Arkansas | Fayetteville, Arkansas | Raleigh, North Carolina
Scottsdale, Arizona | Yuma, Arizona | Naples, Florida | www.frostpllc.com
An Independent Member of the BDO Alliance USA
53
Report on Compliance and Other Matters
As part of obtaining reasonable assurance about whether Arkansas Development Finance
Authority’s combined financial statements are free from material misstatement, we performed tests of its
compliance with certain provisions of laws, regulations, contracts, and grant agreements, noncompliance
with which could have a direct and material effect on the combined financial statements. However,
providing an opinion on compliance with those provisions was not an objective of our audit and,
accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. The results of our tests disclosed no instances of
noncompliance or other matters that are required to be reported under GAS.
Purpose of this Report
The purpose of this report is solely to describe the scope of our testing of internal control and
compliance and the results of that testing, and not to provide an opinion on the effectiveness of Arkansas
Development Finance Authority’s internal control or on compliance. This report is an integral part of an
audit performed in accordance with GAS in considering Arkansas Development Finance Authority’s
internal control and compliance. Accordingly, this communication is not suitable for any other purpose.
Certified Public Accountants
Little Rock, Arkansas
December 8, 2025
54
Independent Auditor’s Report on Compliance for Each
Major Federal Program and Report on Internal Control
Over Compliance in Accordance With the Uniform Guidance
Board of Directors
Arkansas Development Finance Authority
A Component Unit of the State of Arkansas
Little Rock, Arkansas
Report on Compliance for Each Major Federal Program
Opinion on Each Major Federal Program
We have audited Arkansas Development Finance Authority’s compliance with the types of
compliance requirements identified as subject to audit in the OMB Compliance Supplement that could have
a direct and material effect on each of Arkansas Development Finance Authority’s major federal programs
for the year ended June 30, 2025. Arkansas Development Finance Authority’s major federal programs are
identified in the summary of auditor’s results section of the accompanying schedule of findings and
questioned costs.
In our opinion, Arkansas Development Finance Authority complied, in all material respects, with
the compliance requirements referred to above that could have a direct and material effect on each of its
major federal programs for the year ended June 30, 2025.
Basis for Opinion on Each Major Federal Program
We conducted our audit of compliance in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in
the United States of America (“GAAS”); the standards applicable to financial audits contained in
Government Auditing Standards (“GAS”) issued by the Comptroller General of the United States; and the
audit requirements of Title 2 U.S. Code of Federal Regulations Part 200, Uniform Administrative
Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards, (“Uniform Guidance”). Our
responsibilities under those standards and the Uniform Guidance are further described in the Auditor’s
Responsibilities for the Audit of Compliance section of our report.
We are required to be independent of Arkansas Development Finance Authority and to meet our
other ethical responsibilities, in accordance with relevant ethical requirements relating to our audit. We
believe the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion
on compliance for each major federal program. Our audit does not provide a legal determination of
Arkansas Development Finance Authority’s compliance with the compliance requirements referred to
above.
Little Rock, Arkansas | Fayetteville, Arkansas | Raleigh, North Carolina
Scottsdale, Arizona | Yuma, Arizona | Naples, Florida | www.frostpllc.com
An Independent Member of the BDO Alliance USA
55
Responsibilities of Management for Compliance
Management is responsible for compliance with the requirements referred to above and for the
design, implementation, and maintenance of effective internal control over compliance with the
requirements of laws, statutes, regulations, rules, and provisions of contracts or grant agreements applicable
to Arkansas Development Finance Authority’s federal programs.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of Compliance
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether material noncompliance with the
compliance requirements referred to above occurred, whether due to fraud or error, and express an opinion
on Arkansas Development Finance Authority’s compliance based on our audit. Reasonable assurance is a
high level of assurance but is not absolute assurance and therefore is not a guarantee that an audit conducted
in accordance with GAAS, GAS, and the Uniform Guidance will always detect material noncompliance
when it exists. The risk of not detecting material noncompliance resulting from fraud is higher than for that
resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or
the override of internal control. Noncompliance with the compliance requirements referred to above is
considered material, if there is a substantial likelihood that, individually or in the aggregate, it would
influence the judgment made by a reasonable user of the report on compliance about Arkansas Development
Finance Authority’s compliance with the requirements of each major federal program as a whole.
In performing an audit in accordance with GAAS, GAS, and the Uniform Guidance, we:
• Exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit.
• Identify and assess the risks of material noncompliance, whether due to fraud or error, and
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks. Such procedures include
examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding Arkansas Development Finance Authority’s
compliance with the compliance requirements referred to above and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
• Obtain an understanding of Arkansas Development Finance Authority’s internal control over
compliance relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances and to test and report on internal control over compliance in accordance with
the Uniform Guidance, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of
Arkansas Development Finance Authority’s internal control over compliance. Accordingly,
no such opinion is expressed.
We are required to communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other
matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and any significant deficiencies and material weaknesses
in internal control over compliance that we identified during the audit.
56
Report on Internal Control Over Compliance
A deficiency in internal control over compliance exists when the design or operation of a control
over compliance does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their
assigned functions, to prevent, or detect and correct, noncompliance with a type of compliance requirement
of a federal program on a timely basis. A material weakness in internal control over compliance is a
deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over compliance, such that there is a
reasonable possibility that material noncompliance with a type of compliance requirement of a federal
program will not be prevented, or detected and corrected, on a timely basis. A significant deficiency in
internal control over compliance is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over
compliance with a type of compliance requirement of a federal program that is less severe than a material
weakness in internal control over compliance, yet important enough to merit attention by those charged
with governance.
Our consideration of internal control over compliance was for the limited purpose described in the
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of Compliance section above and was not designed to identify all
deficiencies in internal control over compliance that might be material weaknesses or significant
deficiencies in internal control over compliance. Given these limitations, during our audit we did not
identify any deficiencies in internal control over compliance that we consider to be material weaknesses,
as defined above. However, material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in internal control over
compliance may exist that were not identified.
Our audit was not designed for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal
control over compliance. Accordingly, no such opinion is expressed.
The purpose of this report on internal control over compliance is solely to describe the scope of our
testing of internal control over compliance and the results of that testing based on the requirements of the
Uniform Guidance. Accordingly, this report is not suitable for any other purpose.
Certified Public Accountants
Little Rock, Arkansas
December 8, 2025
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 57
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Schedule of Findings and Questioned Costs
For the Year Ended June 30, 2025
Section I – Summary of Auditor’s Results
Combined Financial Statements
Type of auditor’s report issued: Unmodified
Internal control over financial reporting:
• Material weakness(es) identified? _____ Yes __X__ No
• Significant deficiency(ies) identified? _____ Yes __X__ None Reported
Noncompliance material to combined financial statements noted? _____ Yes __X__ No
Federal Awards
Internal control over major programs:
• Material weakness(es) identified? _____ Yes __X__ No
• Significant deficiency(ies) identified? _____ Yes __X__ None Reported
Type of auditor’s report issued on compliance for major
federal programs. Unmodified
Are any audit findings disclosed that are required to be reported in
accordance with 2 CFR 200.516(a)? _____ Yes __X__ No
Identification of major federal programs:
Federal Assistance Listing (“FAL”) Number(s) and Name of
Federal Program or Cluster
HOME Investment Partnerships Program 14.239
HOME Investment HOME-ARP Program 14.239
Dollar threshold used to distinguish between type A and
type B programs: $ 750,000
Auditee qualified as a low-risk auditee? __X__ Yes _____ No
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 58
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Summary Schedule of Prior Audit Findings
For the Year Ended June 30, 2025
Reference Number Summary of Finding Status
No matters were reported in the June 30, 2024 Schedule of Findings and Questioned Costs.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 59
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards
For the Year Ended June 30, 2025
Pass-Through
Entity Pass-Through Total
Federal Grantor/Pass-Through FAL Identifying Through to Federal
Grantor Program or Cluster Title Number Number Subrecipients Expenditures
U.S. Department of Agriculture
Development/Preservation Revolving
Loan Fund 10.415 N/A $ - $ 3,101,980
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development/Emergency Solutions
Grant Program 14.231 N/A - 87,745
U.S. Department of Treasury/American
Rescue Plan/Home Owner Assistance
Fund 21.026 N/A - 86,670
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development/Housing Trust Fund 14.275 N/A - 4,153,721
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development/HOME Investment
Partnerships Program 14.239 N/A 17,493 10,738,701
HOME-ARP Program 14.239 N/A 3,027,751 3,397,223
$ 3,045,243 $ 21,566,039
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the schedule of expenditures of federal awards.
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 60
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards
For the Year Ended June 30, 2025
1. The accompanying schedule of expenditures of federal awards (“SEFA”) includes the federal
award activity of the Arkansas Development Finance Authority (the “Authority”), a component
unit of the State of Arkansas, under programs of the federal government for the year ended June
30, 2025. The information in the SEFA is presented in accordance with the requirements of Title
2 U.S. Code of Federal Regulations Part 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost
Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards (“Uniform Guidance”). Because the SEFA
presents only a selected portion of the operations of the Authority, it is not intended to and does not
present the financial position, changes in net assets, or cash flows of the Authority.
2. Expenditures reported on the SEFA are reported on the accrual basis of accounting. Such
expenditures are recognized following, as applicable, the cost principles in Office of Management
and Budget A-110 or the cost principles contained in the Uniform Guidance, wherein certain types
of expenditures are not allowable or are limited as to reimbursement. The Authority has elected
not to use the 10% de minimis indirect cost rate allowed under the Uniform Guidance.
3. Expenditures reflected in FAL 10.415, Preservation Revolving Loan Fund, include loans to
contractors for the development of multi-family housing. The funding sources for these loans are
two $2,125,000 promissory notes executed between the Authority and the U.S. Department of
Agriculture Rural Development during fiscal year 2013 and fiscal year 2016. When received, the
funds were used to make new loans for program activities. The outstanding loan receivable balance
was $3,089,688 for the year ended June 30, 2025. There were no disbursements for loans made
during the year ended June 30, 2025, as all funding commitments have been fully disbursed for this
program in prior years.
4. Expenditures reflected in FAL 14.239, HOME Investment Partnerships Program, include loans to
contractors and borrowers for the development of single-family and multi-family housing. The
funding source for these loans includes federal grant funds and revolving program funds. The funds
are disbursed after expenses have been incurred as forgiveness of principal and repayable loans.
The outstanding loan receivable balance was $138,155,098 for the year ended June 30, 2025. Total
disbursements of federal funds for repayable loans totaled $9,709,756 during the year ended June
30, 2025.
5. The federal loan programs listed subsequently are administered directly by the Authority, and
balances and transactions relating to the programs are included in the Authority’s basic combined
financial statements. Notes payable outstanding at the beginning of the year and federal
expenditures during the year are included in the federal expenditures presented in the SEFA. The
balance of the notes payable outstanding at June 30, 2025 consists of:
Outstanding Balance
Reference Number Program Name at June 30, 2025
10.415 Preservation Revolving Loan Fund $2,960,316
ARKANSAS DEVELOPMENT FINANCE AUTHORITY, 61
A COMPONENT UNIT OF THE STATE OF ARKANSAS
Notes to Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards (cont.)
For the Year Ended June 30, 2025
6. Expenditures reflected in FAL 14.275, Housing Trust Fund, include loans to contractors for
development or redevelopment of affordable housing, particularly rental housing for extremely low
income and very low income households. The funding source for these loans is federal grant funds.
The funds are disbursed after expenses have been incurred as forgiveness of principal and repayable
loans. The outstanding loan receivable balance was $18,109,135 for the year ended June 30, 2025.
Total disbursements for repayable loans made were $3,923,754 during the year ended June 30,
2025.
7. Expenditures reflected in FAL 21.026, Homeowner Assistance Fund, include disbursements to
prevent homeowner mortgage delinquencies, defaults, utilities delinquencies, and expenses for the
administration of this program. The funding source for these expenses was federal grant funds.