SINGLE AUDIT SUPPLEMENT
AND
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORTS
ON COMPLIANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL
SEPTEMBER 30, 2025
CONTENTS
Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards ............................................................................................... 1
Notes to Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards ................................................................................ 2
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting and on Compliance
and Other Matters Based on an Audit of Financial Statements Performed
in Accordance with Government Auditing Standards ............................................................................... 3
Report on Compliance for each Major Federal Program; Report on Internal
Control Over Compliance; and Report on Schedule of Expenditures of
Federal Awards Required by the Uniform Guidance ................................................................................ 5
Schedule of Findings and Questioned Costs ................................................................................................. 8
Summary Schedule of Prior Audit Findings ............................................................................................... 10
OKLAHOMA HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY
SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES OF FEDERAL AWARDS
Year ended September 30, 2025
Federal Passed
ALN Through to Total Federal
Federal Grantor/Pass-Through Grantor/Program or Cluster Title Number Subrecipients Expenditures
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development:
Lower Income Housing Assistance Program - Section 8
Moderate Rehabilitation (Section 8 Project-Based Cluster) 14.856 $ - $ 132,508
Housing Voucher Cluster:
Section 8 Housing Choice Vouchers Program 14.871 - 92,250,989
Section 8 Housing Choice Vouchers Program - Emergency
Housing Voucher 14.871 - 2,322,199
Total Section 8 Housing Choice Vouchers Program and
Total Housing Voucher Cluster - 94,573,188
PIH Family Self-Sufficiency Program 14.896 - 260,668
Total Section 8 Related - 94,966,364
Performance Based Contract Administrator Program 14.327 - 96,957,510
Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS 14.241 548,304 570,453
Housing Trust Fund 14.275 3,689,786 4,122,322
HOME Investment Partnerships Program 14.239 9,766,892 11,053,476
Total U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development 14,004,982 207,670,125
U.S. Department of Treasury:
Homeowner Assistance Fund 21.026 - 9,059,174
Total Expenditures of Federal Awards $ 14,004,982 $ 216,729,299
See accompanying notes to schedule of expenditures of federal awards. 1
OKLAHOMA HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY
NOTES TO SCHEDULE OF EXPENDITURES OF FEDERAL AWARDS
September 30, 2025
Note 1 – Basis of Presentation
The accompanying schedule of expenditures of federal awards (the Schedule) includes the federal award
activity of the Oklahoma Housing Finance Agency (the Agency) under programs of the federal government
for the year ended September 30, 2025. The information in this Schedule is presented in accordance with
the requirements of Title 2 U.S. Code of Federal Regulations Part 200, Uniform Administrative
Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards (Uniform Guidance). Because
the Schedule presents only a selected portion of the operations of the Agency, it is not intended to and does
not present the financial position, changes in net position, or cash flows of the Agency.
Note 2 – Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Expenditures reported on the Schedule are reported on the accrual basis of accounting. Such expenditures
are recognized following the cost principles contained in the Uniform Guidance, wherein certain types of
expenditures are not allowable or are limited as to reimbursement.
Note 3 – Indirect Cost Rate
The Agency has elected not to use the 10% de minimis indirect cost rate as allowed under the Uniform
Guidance.
2
REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
AND ON COMPLIANCE AND OTHER MATTERS BASED ON AN AUDIT
OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
GOVERNMENT AUDITING STANDARDS
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT
To the Board of Trustees
Oklahoma Housing Finance Agency
We have audited, in accordance with the auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of
America and the standards applicable to financial audits contained in Government Auditing Standards,
issued by the Comptroller General of the United States (Government Auditing Standards), the financial
statements of Oklahoma Housing Finance Agency (the Agency), a component unit of the State of
Oklahoma, as of and for the year ended September 30, 2025, and the related notes to the financial
statements, and have issued our report thereon dated January 20, 2026.
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
I n planning and performing our audit of the financial statements, we considered the Agency's internal
control over financial reporting (internal control) as a basis for designing audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances for the purpose of expressing our opinion on the financial statements, but
not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Agency's internal control.
Accordingly, we do not express an opinion on the effectiveness of the Agency's internal control.
A deficiency in internal control exists when the design or operation of a control does not allow management
o r employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned functions, to prevent, or detect and correct,
m isstatements on a timely basis. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in
internal control, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the entity's
financial statements will not be prevented or detected and corrected on a timely basis. A significant
deficiency is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control that is less severe than a
material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those charged with governance.
O ur consideration of internal control was for the limited purpose described in the first paragraph of this
s ection and was not designed to identify all deficiencies in internal control that might be material
w eaknesses or significant deficiencies. Given these limitations, during our audit we did not identify any
deficiencies in internal control that we consider to be material weaknesses. However, material weaknesses
or significant deficiencies may exist that have not been identified.
Report on Compliance and Other Matters
A s part of obtaining reasonable assurance about whether the Agency's financial statements are free from
m aterial misstatement, we performed tests of its compliance with certain provisions of laws, regulations,
contracts, and grant agreements, noncompliance with which could have a direct and material effect on the
financial statements. However, providing an opinion on compliance with those provisions was not an
objective of our audit, and accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. The results of our tests disclosed
no instances of noncompliance or other matters that are required to be reported under Government Auditing
Standards.
www.ho gantaylor. com
3
Purpose of This Report
The purpose of this report is solely to describe the scope of our testing of internal control and compliance
and the results of that testing, and not to provide an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity's internal
control or on compliance. This report is an integral part of an audit performed in accordance with
Government Auditing Standards in considering the entity's internal control and compliance. Accordingly,
this communication is not suitable for any other purpose.
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
January 20, 2026
4
REPORT ON COMPLIANCE FOR EACH MAJOR FEDERAL PROGRAM; REPORT ON
INTERNAL CONTROL OVER COMPLIANCE; AND REPORT ON SCHEDULE OF
EXPENDITURES OF FEDERAL AWARDS REQUIRED BY THE UNIFORM GUIDANCE
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT
To the Board of Trustees
Oklahoma Housing Finance Agency
R eport on Compliance for Each Major Federal Program
O pinion on Each Major Federal Program
We have audited Oklahoma Housing Finance Agency's (the Agency), a component unit of the State of
Oklahoma, compliance with the types of compliance requirements identified as subject to audit in the OMB
Compliance Supplement that could have a direct and material effecton each of the Agency's major federal
programs for the year ended September 30, 2025. The Agency's major federal programs are identified in
t he summary of auditor's results section of the accompanying schedule of findings and questioned costs.
I n our opinion, the Agency complied, in all material respects, with the types of compliance requirements
referred to above that could have a direct and material effect on each of its major federal programs for the
year ended September 30, 2025.
Basis for Opinion on Each Major Federal Program
W e conducted our audit of compliance in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the
U nited States of America (GAAS); the standards applicable to financial audits contained in Government
A uditing Standard issued by the Comptroller General of the United States (Government Auditing
Standards); and the audit requirements of Title 2 U.S. Code of Federal Regulations Part 200, Uniform
Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards (Uniform
Guidance). Our responsibilities under those standards and the Uniform Guidance are further described in
the Auditor's Responsibilities for the Audit of Compliance section of our report.
W e are required to be independent of the Agency and to meet our other ethical responsibilities, in
a ccordance with relevant ethical requirements relating to our audit. We believe that the audit evidence we
h ave obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on compliance for each major
federal program. Our audit does not provide a legal determination of the Agency's compliance with the
compliance requirements referred to above.
Responsibilities of Management for Compliance
M anagement is responsible for compliance with the requirements referred to above and for the design,
i mplementation, and maintenance of effective internal control over compliance with the requirements of
laws, statutes, regulations, rules and provisions of contracts or grant agreements applicable to the Agency's
federal programs.
www.hogantaylor.com
5
Auditor's Responsibilities for the Audit of Compliance
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether material noncompliance with the
compliance requirements referred to above occurred, whether due to fraud or error, and express an opinion
on the Agency's compliance based on our audit. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is
not absolute assurance and therefore is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with
GAAS, Government Auditing Standards, and the Uniform Guidance will always detect material
noncompliance when it exists. The risk of not detecting material noncompliance resulting from fraud is
higher than for that resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. Noncompliance with the compliance requirements
referred to above is considered material, if there is a substantial likelihood that, individually or in the
aggregate, it would influence the judgment made by a reasonable user of the report on compliance about
the Agency's compliance with the requirements of each major federal program as a whole.
In performing an audit in accordance with GAAS, Government Auditing Standards, and the Uniform
Guidance, we:
• Exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit.
• Identify and assess the risks of material noncompliance, whether due to fraud or error, and design
and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks. Such procedures include examining, on a
test basis, evidence regarding the Agency's compliance with the compliance requirements referred
to above and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
• Obtain an understanding of the Agency's internal control over compliance relevant to the audit in
order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances and to test and report on
internal control over compliance in accordance with the Uniform Guidance, but not for the purpose
of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Agency's internal control over compliance.
Accordingly, no such opinion is expressed.
We are required to communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the
planned scope and timing of the audit and any significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in internal
control over compliance that we identified during the audit.
Report on Internal Control Over Compliance
A deficiency in internal control over compliance exists when the design or operation of a control over
compliance does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned
functions, to prevent, or detect and correct, noncompliance with a type of compliance requirement of a
federal program on a timely basis. A material weakness in internal control over compliance is a deficiency,
or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over compliance, such that there is a reasonable
possibility that material noncompliance with a type of compliance requirement of a federal program will
not be prevented, or detected and corrected, on a timely basis. A significant deficiency in internal control
over compliance is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over compliance with
a type of compliance requirement of a federal program that is less severe than a material weakness in
internal control over compliance, yet important enough to merit attention by those charged with governance.
Our consideration of internal control over compliance was for the limited purpose described in the Auditor's
Responsibilities for the Audit of Compliance section above and was not designed to identify all deficiencies
in internal control over compliance that might be material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in internal
control over compliance. Given these limitations, during our audit we did not identify any deficiencies in
internal control over compliance that we consider to be material weaknesses, as defined above. However,
material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in internal control over compliance may exist that were not
identified.
6
Our audit was not designed for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control
over compliance. Accordingly, no such opinion is expressed.
The purpose of this report on internal control over compliance is solely to describe the scope of our testing
of internal control over compliance and the results of that testing based on the requirements of the Uniform
Guidance. Accordingly, this report is not suitable for any other purpose.
Report on Schedule of Expenditures of Federal Awards Required by the Uniform Guidance
We have audited the financial statements of the Agency as of and for the year ended September 30, 2025,
and have issued our report thereon dated January 20, 2026, which contained an unmodified opinion on
those financial statements. Our audit was performed for the purpose of forming an opinion on the financial
statements as a whole. The accompanying schedule of expenditures of federal awards is presented for
purposes of additional analysis as required by the Uniform Guidance and is not a required part of the
financial statements. Such information is the responsibility of management and was derived from and
relates directly to the underlying accounting and other records used to prepare the financial statements. The
information has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of the financial statements
and certain additional procedures, including comparing and reconciling such information directly to the
underlying accounting and other records used to prepare the financial statements or to the financial
statements themselves, and other additional procedures in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. In our opinion, the schedule of expenditures of federal awards is
fairly stated in all material respects in relation to the financial statements as a whole.
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
January 20, 2026
7
OKLAHOMA HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY
SCHEDULE OF FINDINGS AND QUESTIONED COSTS
Year ended September 30, 2025
Section I – Summary of Auditor's Results
Financial Statements
Type of Auditor's report issued: Unmodified
Yes No None Reported
Internal control over financial reporting:
Material weakness(es) identified? X
Significant deficiency(ies) identified? X
Noncompliance material to financial
statements noted? X
Federal Awards
Yes No None Reported
Internal control over major programs:
Material weakness(es) identified? X
Significant deficiency(ies) identified? X
Type of Auditor's report issued on compliance
for major federal programs: Unmodified
Any audit findings disclosed that are required to
be reported in accordance with section 2 CFR
200.516(a)? X
Identification of major programs:
ALN (CFDA) Number(s) Name of Federal Program or Cluster
14.871 Housing Voucher Cluster
14.239 HOME Investment Partnerships Program
Dollar threshold used to distinguish between
type A and type B programs: $3,000,000
8
OKLAHOMA HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY
SCHEDULE OF FINDINGS AND QUESTIONED COSTS (continued)
Year ended September 30, 2025
Yes No
Auditee qualified as low-risk auditee? X
Section II – Financial Statement Findings
None
Section III – Federal Award Findings and Questioned Costs
None
9
OKLAHOMA HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY
SUMMARY SCHEDULE OF PRIOR AUDIT FINDINGS
Year ended September 30, 2025
Section II – Financial Statement Findings
None
Section III – Federal Award Findings and Questioned Costs
None
10